---
draft: true
---

# 2015 Fall Algebra

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
(a) Define __prime ideal__.

(b) Define __maximal ideal__.

(c) Give an example of a ring $R$ and ideals $P_1$, $P_2$, and $P_3$ of $R$ such that for the properties "prime ideal" and "maximal ideal" of $R$,

i. $P_1$ satisfies both properties,

ii. $P_2$ satisfies neither property,

iii. $P_3$ satisfies one property but not the other.

Justify your answers.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Show that if a group $G$ has only finitely many subgroups then $G$ is a finite group.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Let $A$ be an $n\times n$ matrix with entries in $\R$ such that $A^2=-I$.

(a) Prove that $n$ is even.

(b) Prove that $A$ is diagonalizable over $\C$ and describe the corresponding diagonal matrices.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Let $G$ be a group of order 70. Prove that $G$ has a normal subgroup of order 35.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Construct a Galois extension $F$ of $\Q$ satisfying $Gal(F/\Q)\cong D_8$, the dihedral group of order 8. Fully justify.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Let $F$ be a field. Prove that every ideal of $F[x]$ is principal.

#proof

::
::ProblemBlock{number=7}
#problem
Give an example of a module $M$ over a ring $R$ such that $M$ is _not_ finitely generated as an $R$-module. Prove that it is not finitely generated as an $R$-module.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=8}
#problem
Suppose $H$ is a normal subgroup of a finite group $G$.

(a) Prove or disprove: If $H$ has order 2, then $H$ is a subgroup of the center of $G$.

(b) Prove or disprove: If $H$ has order 3, then $H$ is a subgroup of the center of $G$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=9}
#problem
(a) What does it mean for a representation to be __irreducible__?

(b) Suppose $p$ is a prime. Let $G=\Z/p\Z$ and let $\rho:G\to GL_2(\F_p)$ be a representation. Show that $\rho$ is reducible.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=10}
#problem
(a) Compute the order of $GL_4(\F_{3^2})$. (Justify your reasoning.)

(b) Compute the order of $SL_2(\F_{3^2})$. (Justify your reasoning)

(c) Show that $\Z[\sqrt{10}]$ is not a UFD.

#proof

::