# 2016 Fall Algebra

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Is every group of order 39 cyclic? Either prove this or construct a non-cyclic group of order 39.

#proof
We recall that for distinct primes $p<q$ there is a non-abelian group of order $pq$ if and only if $q\equiv 1\mod p$. Since $13\equiv 1\mod 3$ our goal is to construct the non-abelian group of order 39. The easiest way to do this is via semidirect product. By Cauchy's theorem a group of order 39 has a subgroup $K$ of order 3 and a subgroup $H$ of order 13.

We know that $Aut(H) \cong (\Z/13\Z)^*\cong \Z/12\Z$. By Cauchy's theorem again this group contains a unique subgroup of order 3. Thus, there is a nontrivial homomorphism from $K$ into $Aut(H)$, which implies that the semidirect product of $H$ and $K$ is not abelian.

Though it is not necessary to solve this problem, when $p$ and $q$ are primes with $q\equiv 1\mod p$ a presentation for the (unique up to isomorphism) non-abelian group of order $pq$ is given by
$$
G = \langle a,b | a^p=b^q=1,\, bab^{-1}=a^l\rangle
$$
where $l^q\equiv 1\mod p$ and $(l,p)=1$.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Recall that for $H$ a subgroup of $G$, the normalizer $N(H)$ is defined to be $\{ g\in G : gHg^{-1}=H \}$. Let $p$ be a prime and $S_p$ denote the symmetric group on $p$ letters. Let $H$ be a subgroup of $G=S_p$ of order $p$. What is the order of $N(H)$? Explain your answer.

#proof
We will show that $|N(H)|=p(p-1)$. Since $S_p=p!$ a subgroup of order $p$ is a Sylow $p$-subgroup. We recall that the index of $N(H)$ in $S_p$ is the number of Sylow $p$-subgroups of $S_p$. Each such subgroup contains exactly $p-1$ elements of order $p$ and the intersection of any two such subgroups is trivial. The elements of order $p$ are exactly the $p$-cycles, and there are $(p-1)!$ of these. Therefore $[S_p:N(H)](p-1)=(p-1)!$, so $|N(H)|\cdot(p-2)!=p!$, and $|N(H)|=p(p-1)$.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Prove or disprove: The quotient ring $\F_2[x]/(x^4+x^3+x^2+x+1)$ is a field.

#proof
Let $F$ be a field. We recall that $F[x]/(p(x))$ is a field if and only if $p(x)$ is irreducible. Therefore, we need only see whether $x^4+x^3+x^2+x+1$ is irreducible over $\F_2$. By substituting 0 and 1 we see that it has no linear factors. So, if this polynomial is not irreducible it must factor as the product of two quadratic polynomials. That is, we must have a solution:
$$
(x^2+ax+b)(x^2+cx+d) = x^4+(a+c)x^3+(b+d+ac)x^2+(bc+ad)x+bd,
$$
where $a,b,c,d\in\{0,1\}$. Since $bd=1$ we must have $b=d=1$, which implies $a+c=1$ and $ac=1$, which is impossible.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Does there exist a ring with 1 whose additive group is isomorphic to $\Q/\Z$? Prove your answer.

#proof
Let $R$ be such a ring and $f:(R,+)\to\Q/\Z$ be an isomorphism of additive groups. We first note that we cannot have $0=1$ in $R$ since this implies $R=\{0\}$ and the additive group of $R$ cannot be isomorphic to a non-trivial group.

Consider the image $f(1)\in\Q/\Z$. This is equal to $[a/b]$ for some $a/b\in\Q$. Note that $b\cdot[a/b]=0$ in $\Q/\Z$ so since $f$ is injective we must have $b\cdot 1=0$ in $R$ (where here we are considering multiplication by $b$ in terms of repeated addition since $b\in\Z$).

Now consider $x:=f^{-1}([a/b^2])\in R$. We have $f(b\cdot x)=b\cdot f(x)=[a/b]$, so since $f$ is injective $b\cdot x=1$. But $b\cdot 1=0$, so $b\cdot x=(b\cdot 1)\cdot x=0$, and we find $0=1$ in $R$, which is a contradiction.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $R$ denote a commutative ring with 1 such that for every $r\in R$, we have $r^n=r$ for some integer $n>1$. Prove that every prime ideal in $R$ is maximal.

#proof
__Solution 1:__ Let $P$ be a prime ideal of $R$ and assume there is an ideal $I$ of $R$ strictly containing $P$. We will show that $I=R$.

Let $y\in I\setminus P$. By assumption there is an $n$ such that $y^n=y$. For any $x\in R$ we have
$$
y(x-y^{n-1}x) = yx-y^nx=yx-yx=0\in P
$$
Since $P$ is a prime ideal $x-y^{n-1}x\in P$. Since $y^{n-1}x\in I$ we must have $x = (x-y^{n-1}x)+y^{n-1}x\in I$, completing the proof.

__Solution 2:__ Since $P$ is a prime ideal we know that $R/P$ is an integral domain. Our goal is to show that it is a field, which implies that $P$ is maximal. The condition on elements means that every element $x\in R/P$ satisfies $x^n=x$ for some $n>1$. Suppose $x\neq 0$ in $R/P$. This means $x^n-x = x(x^{n-1}-1)=0$ in $R/P$. Since $R/P$ is an integral domain, we must have $x^{n-1}=x\cdot x^{n-2}=1$, which implies that $x$ is invertible in $R/P$.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Let $\zeta = e^{2\pi i/7}\in\C$ denote a primitive 7-th root of unity.

(a) True/False: Every element in $\Q(\zeta)$ can be expressed __uniquely__ in the form
$$
a_0 + a_1\zeta + a_2\zeta^2 + a_3\zeta^3 + a_4\zeta^4 + a_5\zeta^5 + a_6\zeta^6,
$$
where $a_0,\ldots,a_6\in\Q$. Briefly explain.

(b) Find the order of the element $\sigma\in Gal(\Q(\zeta)/\Q)$ induced by $\sigma:\zeta\mapsto \zeta^2$. Briefly explain your answer.

(c) Find the degree of the field extension $\Q(\zeta+\zeta^2+\zeta^4)/\Q$. Explain your answer.

#proof
(a) False- the minimal polynomial for $\zeta$ is the 7-th cyclotomic polynomial $\Phi_7(x) = x^6+x^5+x^4+x^3+x^2+x+1$. We see for example that
$$
-1 = \zeta+\zeta^2+\zeta^3+\zeta^4+\zeta^5+\zeta^6,
$$
which means that we do not have uniqueness of these representations of elements.

(b) For a primitive $n$-th root of unity $\zeta_n$ we know that $Gal(\Q(\zeta_n)/\Q)$ is natually isomorphic to $(\Z/n\Z)^*$ where the isomorphism is given by $\sigma_a(\zeta)=\zeta^a$. Therefore, the order of this element is qual to the order of 2 in $(\Z/7\Z)^*$, which is 3. Note that
$$
\sigma(\sigma(\sigma(\zeta))) = \sigma(\sigma(\zeta^2)) = \sigma(\zeta^4) = \zeta^8 = \zeta.
$$

(c) We note that the element $\zeta+\zeta^2+\zeta^4$ is fixed by the element $\sigma$ of the previous problem. Let $H =\langle\sigma\rangle$, a subgroup of $G = Gal(\Q(\zeta)/\Q)$. The degree of the fixed field of $H$ over $\Q$ is equal to the index $[G:H]=2$ and it contains the field $\Q(\zeta+\zeta^2+\zeta^4)$. Note that $\zeta+\zeta^2+\zeta^4$ is not in $\Q$ (if it were then the minimal polynomial of $\zeta$ would have degree at most 4), so $\Q(\zeta+\zeta^2+\zeta^4)$ is the fixed field of $H$, which has degree 2.

::
::ProblemBlock{number=7}
#problem
Give an example of a $10\times 10$ matrix over $\R$ with minimal polynomial $(x^4-2)(x+2)^2$ which is not similar to any matrix with rational entries. Briefly explain your answer.

#proof
Consider the $\R[x]$-module
$$
\R[x]/(x^2-\sqrt{2})\oplus \R[x]/(x^2-\sqrt{2})\oplus \R[x]/\left((x^2-\sqrt{2})(x^2+\sqrt{2})(x+2)^2\right).
$$
The linear transformation corresponding to multiplication by $x$ has minimal polynomial $(x^4-2)(x+2)^2=(x^4-2)(x^2+4x+4)=x^6+4x^5+4x^4-2x^2-8x-8$. The corresponding rational canonical form for this linear transformation is
$$
\left(
\begin{array}{@{}c|c|c@{}}
\begin{matrix}
0 & \sqrt{2} \\
1 & 0 \\
\end{matrix} & & \\ \hline
& \begin{matrix}
0 & \sqrt{2} \\
1 & 0 \\
\end{matrix} & \\ \hline
& & \begin{matrix}
0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 8 \\
1 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 8 \\
0 & 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 2 \\
0 & 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 0 & 1 & 0 & -4 \\
0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 & -4 \\
\end{matrix} \\
\end{array}
\right)
$$
This matrix cannot be similar to a matrix with rational coefficients, because any similar matrix has the above as its rational canonical form, but a matrix with rational coefficients has as its rational canonical form another matrix with rational coefficients.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=8}
#problem
Let $D_{10}$ denote the dihedral group of order 10.

(a) Give an example of a non-trivial degree one representation $D_{10}\to GL_1(\R)$.

(b) Give an example of an irreducible degree two representation $D_{10}\to GL_2(\R)$. Prove that your representation is irreducible.

#proof
(a) We consider the presentation of $D_{10}$ given by $\langle s,r \,|\, s^2=r^5=1,\, srs^{-1}=r^{-1}\rangle$. Every element can be written uniquely as $s^ir^j$ where $i=0,1$ and $j=0,1,2,3,4$. We consider the sign representation which maps $s^ir^j$ to $(-1)^i$. This is a non-trivial degree one representation.

(b) We want to find $2\times 2$ matrices $R$ and $S$ satisfying the relations $R^5=S^2=I$ and $RS=SR^{-1}$, then the map $r\to R$ and $s\to S$ extends uniquely to a homomorphism from $D_{2n}$ to the matrix group generated by $R$ and $S$. We can take
$$
S = \begin{pmatrix}
0 & 1 \\
1 & 0 \\
\end{pmatrix} \qquad
R = \begin{pmatrix}
\cos(2\pi/5) & -\sin(2\pi/5) \\
\sin(2\pi/5) &  \cos(2\pi/5) \\
\end{pmatrix}, 
$$
the matrix that corresponds to rotation by $2\pi/5$ radians. This is irreducible as there are no $D_{10}$-invariant 1-dimensional subspaces, since rotation by $2\pi/5$ radians sends no line in $\R^2$ to itself.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=9}
#problem
True/False. For each of the following answer True or False and give a __brief__ explanation.

(a) Every finite subgroup of $GL_n(\Q)$ is abelian.

(b) A finite extension of $\Q$ cannot have infinitely many distinct subfields.

#proof
(a) False. We have $S_n$ embedded as a subgroup of $GL_n(\Q)$ via the permutation matrices- where a permutation $\sigma$ is sent to the matrix where row $i$ has a single 1 in column $\sigma(i)$.

(b) True. Let $K$ be a finite extension of $\Q$ and $L$ the normal closure of $K$ over $\Q$. Suppose $Gal(L/\Q)$ has order $m$. A group of order $m$ has only finitely many subgroups, and the subfields of $L$ (which certainly contain the subfields of $K$) are in one-to-one correspondence with the subgroups of this group.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=10}
#problem
For each of the following, either give an example or state that none exists. In either case, give a __brief__ explanation.

(a) A non-zero zero divisor in $\C \otimes_\R \C$.

(b) An injective group homomorphism $(\Z/8\Z)^\times\to\Z/24\Z$.

#proof
(a) We know that $\C$ is a free $\R$-module with basis 1, $i$. Therefore, $\C\times_\R \C$ is a free $\R$-module of rank 4 with basis $e_1=1\otimes 1$, $e_2=1\otimes i$, $e_3=i\otimes 1$, and $e_4=i\otimes i$. Note that $e_1=1$. We have that
$$
e_4\cdot e_4=(i\otimes i)(i\otimes i) = i^2\otimes i^2=(-1)\otimes (-1)=(-1)(-1)\otimes 1=1\otimes 1=1,
$$
so $e_4^2-1 = (e_4-1)(e_4+1) = 0$, and $e_4-1$ is a non-zero zero divisor.

(b) This is not possible. $(\Z/8\Z)^\times$ is isomorphc to $\Z/2\Z\times\Z/2\Z$ which has three elements of order 2, which $\Z/24\Z$ has only one.

::