# 2016 Spring Algebra

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
(a) Prove that every subgroup of a cyclic group is cyclic.

(b) Is the automorphism group of a cyclic group necessarily cyclic? Explain.

#proof
(a) Let $G = \langle a\rangle$ and let $H\leq G$. If $H = \{e\}$ we are done, so suppose $H\neq\{e\}$. So $a^n\in H$ for some $n\in\Z$. Let $m$ be the smallest positive integer such that $a^m\in H$. Let $b\in H$. Since $b\in G$, $b=a^{n'}$ for some $n'\in\Z$. By the division algorithm, $n' = mq+r$ where $0\leq r < m$. So $b = (a^m)^q\cdot a^r$. We see that $a^r\in H$, and since $m$ is the smallest positive integer with $a^m\in\Z$, $r=0$. Therefore, every element in $H$ is in the cyclic group generated by $a^m$, so $H$ is cyclic.

(b) No, the automorphism group of $\Z/8\Z$ is isomorphic to $\Z/2\Z\times\Z/2\Z$. You can see this by noting that an automorphism of a cyclic group is determined by where it sends a generator, and $\varphi(1)\in\{1,3,5,7\}$ (since $\varphi$ is surjective) and each of these automorphisms are of order 2.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Let $G = \Z/25\Z$, the cyclic group of order 25.

(a) Can $G$ be given the structure of a $\Z[i]$-module? Explain your answer.

(b) Can $G$ be given the structure of a $\Z/5\Z$-module? Explain your answer.

#proof
(a) We need only determine how an element $a+bi$ acts on any $g\in G$. By the module axioms we must have $a\cdot g = ga = g+\cdots+g$ ($a$ times), so we need only determine $i\cdot g$. By the axioms, we have $(-1)\cdot g = (i\cdot g)(i\cdot g) = -g$, so we need the action $i$ to give a homomorphism from $G$ to $G$ which is multiplication by -1 when we do it twice. So, we need $i\cdot g=\alpha g$ where $\alpha$ is a square root of -1. Since $25 = 5^2$, we see that $-1$ is a square, and checking small numbers we see $7^2=-1$. So, we can let $i\cdot g=7g$, giving $G$ the structure of a $\Z[i]$-module.

(b) No: $\Z/5\Z$ is a field and a module over a field is a vector space over that field. In particular, for any $\Z/5\Z$ module we must have $1\cdot g = g$ and so $5g=0$, which is not the case in $\Z/25\Z$.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Prove there is no simple group of order 520.

#proof
We start be factoring $520 = 2^3\cdot 5\cdot 13$. Let $n_p$ be the number of Sylow $p$-subgroups of $G$. Our goal is to show that either $n_2$, $n_5$, or $n_{13}$ is 1, since then that unique Sylow $p$-subgroup would have to be normal.

Since $n_p\equiv 1 \mod p$ and if we write and if we write $|G|=p^n\cdot m$ with $p\not| m$, we have $n_p|m$. Then
$$
n_2\in\{1,5,13,65\}, \quad n_5\in\{1,12\}, \quad n_{13}\in\{1,40\}.
$$
Suppose none of these are 1. Then $n_{13}=40$ and since each pair of these groups of order 13 intersect trivially we get 12 elements of order 13 in each. This gives $12\cdot 40 = 480$ elements of order 13 in $G$. Similarly, we get 4 elements of order 5 from each Sylow 5-subgroup, so $n_5=26$ implies there are $4\cdot 26 =104$ elements of order 5. Since $480+104>520=|G|$ we see that this is impossible and either $n_5=1$ or $n_{13}=1$.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Let $G$ be a finite group acting transitively on a set $X$ with $|X|>1$.

(a) State the Orbit-Stabilizer Theorem.

(b) Show that there is some element of $G$ which fixes no element of $X$.

#proof
(a) [Orbit-Stabilizer Theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Group_action#Orbit-stabilizer_theorem)

(b) The starting point of this problem is Burnside's Lemma (which follows from the Orbit-Stabilizer Theorem plus some counting). For $g\in G$, let $X^g$ be the set of fixed points of $g$. Burnside's Lemma says
$$
1=\frac{1}{|G|}\sum_{g\in G} |X^g|,
$$
where the 1 is because the action is transitive. Now $|X^e|=|X|>1$, so one of the summands in this average is larger than 1. That means that one of the $|X^g|$ must be less than 1 (since the average is 1) and since it is a nonnegative integer, it must be 0.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $K$ be a field and let $\bar{K}$ be an algebraic closure of $K$. Assume $\alpha,\beta\in\bar{K}$ have degree 2 and 3 over $K$, respectively.

(a) Can $\alpha\beta$ have degree 5 over $K$? Either give an example or prove this is impossible.

(b) Can $\alpha\beta$ have degree 6 over $K$? Either give an example or prove this is impossible.

#proof
(a) This is impossible. By multiplicativity of the degree of field extensions we have $[K(\alpha,\beta):K]=6$. Since $\alpha\beta\in K(\alpha,\beta)$ the degree of $\alpha\beta$ over $K$ must divide 6.

(b) This is possible. Let $\alpha=i$ and $\beta=\sqrt[3]{2}$. Since $i\notin\Q(\sqrt[3]{2})$ we see that $[\Q(i,\sqrt[3]{2}):\Q]=6$. So, we need only see that $i$, $\sqrt[3]{2}\in \Q(i\sqrt[3]{2})$. Since $(i\sqrt[3]{2})^3 = -2i$ and $(i\sqrt[3]{2})^4 = 2\sqrt[3]{2}$, we're done.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Let $L/\Q$ denote a Galois extension with Galois group isomorphic to $A_4$.

(a) Does there exist a quadratic extension $K/\Q$ contained in $L$? Prove your answer.

(b) Does there exist a degree 4 polynomial in $\Q[x]$ with splitting field equal to $L$? Prove your answer.

#proof
(a) By the Galois Correspondence Theorem this is equivalent to asking whether $A_4$ contains a subgroup of index 2. Suppose $H$ were a subgroup of $A_4$ of order 6. There must be a 3-cycle not in $H$ since they are 8 total 3-cycles in $A_4$. Let $\sigma$ be such a 3-cycle. Since there are only two cosets of $H$ we must have $\sigma^2H=H$ or $\sigma^2H=\sigma H$, both of which are impossible.

(b) This is equivalent to asking whether there is a non-Galois quartic extension of $\Q$ contained in $L$, which is the same as asking whether $A_4$ contains a non-normal index 4 subgroup. It does contain such a subgroup, for example taking the subgroup generated by any 3-cycle.

::
::ProblemBlock{number=7}
#problem
Let $A:V\to V$ be a linear transformation of a vector space $V$ over the field $\Q$ which satisfies the relation $(A^3+3I)(A^3-2I)=0$. Show that the dimension $\dim_\Q(V)$ is divisible by 3.

#proof
We assume $V$ is finite dimensional. 

We consider the subspaces $V_1={\rm Ker}(A^3+3I)$. Let $V_2=V/V_2$. Since $V_1, V_2$ and $V$ are vector spaces, we must have 
$$
V=V_1\oplus V_2.
$$
By assumption, $V_2={\rm Im}(A^3+3I)={\rm Ker}(A^3-2I)$. We shall prove that both dimensions of $V_1$ and $V-2$ are divisible by $3$.

Let $\mathscr B=\{x_1,\cdots, x_n\}$ be a basis of $V_1$. Since $Ax_1$ is not linear dependent to $x_1$, we can find an $2\leq i\leq n$ such that replacing $x_i$ by $Ax_1$, the set $\mathscr B$ is still a basis of $V_1$. Similarly, since $x^3+3=0$ has no rational solution, $A^2x_1$ can not be represented by a linear combination of $x_1$ and $Ax_1$. This we canb replacing some of $x_j$ ($j\neq 1, i$) with $A^2x_1$ and the set $\mathscr B$ is still a basis. By induction, we shall find a basis of $V_1$ so that the basis can be given by $\mathscr B=\{x_1, Ax_1, A^2 x_1, x_2, Ax_2, A^2 x_2,\cdots, x_r, Ax_r, A^2 x_r\}$, and hence $n=3r$.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=8}
#problem
True/False/ For each of the following answer True or False and give a __brief__ explanation.

(a) If $K_1$, $K_2$ are fields and $\varphi:K_1\to K_2$ is a ring homomorphism such that $\varphi(1)=1$, then $\varphi$ is injective.

(b) The unit group of $\C$ is isomorphic to the additive group of $\C$.

(c) Let $n$ be a positive integer. Then $\Z/n\Z\otimes_\Z \mathbb{Q}=0$.

#proof
(a) This is true -- since $\ker\varphi$ is an ideal of $K_1$ so it is 0 or all of $K_1$.

(b) This is false -- the additive group is never isomorphic to its multiplicative group. Alternatively, these groups have different number of elements of order 2.

(c) This is true -- we have $[a]\otimes \frac nq=n[a]\otimes \frac 1q=0$.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=9}
#problem
For each of the following, either give an example or state that none exists. In either case, give a __brief__ explanation.

(a) An element $\alpha\in\Q(\sqrt{2},i)$ such that $\Q(\alpha) = \Q(\sqrt{2},i)$.

(b) A tower of field extensions $L\supseteq K'\supseteq K$ such that $L/K'$ and $K'/K$ are Galois extension but $L/K$ is not Galois.

#proof
(a) The Primitive Element Theorem says that such an element must exist. For an explicit example, take $\sqrt{2}+i$.

(b) Consider $K = \Q$, $K' = \Q(\sqrt{2})$, and $L = \Q(\sqrt[4]{2})$. We see that $L/K$ is not Galois since it does not contain the other roots of $x^4-2$, but each of $K'/K$ and $L/K'$ is Galois since they are quadratic.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=10}
#problem
Let $L_1,\ldots,L_r$ be all pairwise non-isomorphic complex irreducible representations of a group $G$ of order 12. What are the possible values for their dimensions $n_i=\dim_\C L_i$? For each of the possible answers of the form $(n_1,\ldots,n_r)$ give an example of $G$ which has such irreducible representations.

#proof
We know that $\sum_{i=1}^r n_i^2 = 12$ and that each $n_i$ divides 12 (we don't actually need this). This implies that each $n_i\leq 3$. Also, the number of $n_i$ is equal to the index of $G'$, the commutator subgroup in $G$.

When $G$ is abelian we have $n_i=1$ for all $i$, so we get $(1,1,\ldots,1)$. If $G$ is not abelian, then the number of $n_i$ is at most 6 (and is always at least 1). In particular, the sum of squares of the $n_i$ bigger than 1 must be at least 6.

The only possibilities left are $(3,1,1,1)$ and $(2,2,1,1,1,1)$. The first set of numbers correspond to the irreducible representations of $A_4$. You can see this by noting that the commutator subgroup has order 4. This is because the commutator subgroup is the largest normal subgroup such that the quotient is abelian, and $A_4$ has a normal subgroup of order 4.

The second set correspond to the irreducible representations of $S_3\times \Z/2\Z$, which we can see by the fact that the dimensions of irreducible representations of a direct product are pairwise products of the dimensions of the irreducible representations of the direct factors. The dihedral group of order 12 also works here.

::