---
draft: true
---

# 2017 Fall Algebra

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Suppose $A\in M_3(\C)$ has eigenvalues -1 and 2 (and no other eigenvalues). Let $c_A(x)\in \C[x]$ denote the characteristic polynomial of $A$, and $m_A(x)\in \C[x]$ the minimal polynomial. Which pairs $(c_A(x),m_A(x))$ can occur? For each pair that can orccur, find an explicit example of a matrix $A$ with those characteristic and minimal polynomials.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Prove that no group of order 150 is simple.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Suppose $G$ is an abelian group, and $H_1$, $H_2$ are subgroups. Either prove the following statement, or find a counterexample:
$$
\text{If } G/H_1 \cong G/H_2 \text{, then } H_1\cong H_2
$$

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Determine up to isomorphism all $\F_2[x]$-modules of order 4.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Suppose that $K$ is a field of characteristic 0, and $L$ is the splitting field of the irreducible polynomial $f(x)\in K[x]$. Prove that if $Gal(L/K)$ is abelian, and if $a\in L$ is a root of $f$, then $L=K(a)$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
(a) Let $f(x)=x^{31}-1\in\F_2[x]$. What is $Gal(f)$?

(b) Let $f(x)=x^{31}-1\in\F_5[x]$. What is $Gal(f)$?

#proof

::
::ProblemBlock{number=7}
#problem
Which of the following ideals of $\Z[x,y]$ are prime? Which are maximal? Justify your answer.
$$
(x,y),\quad (x,3y),\quad (x^2+1,y),\quad (x^2+1,3,y),\quad (x^2+1,5,y).
$$

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=8}
#problem
If $N$ is a finite nromal subgroup of a group $G$, $d\in \Z_{>0}$, and $G/N$ has an element of order $d$, then so does $G$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=9}
#problem
Indicate whether each of the following statements is True or False, and give a brief justification.

(a) Every commutative ring with identity, with exactly 200 elements, has zero divisors.

(b) For every prime $p$ there is a nonzero homomorphism from $\Z[i]\to\F_p$.

(c) The center of a non-abelian group $G$ is always properly contained in some abelian subgroup.

(d) If $K$ is a subfield of $F$ and $F$ is isomorphic to $K$ as fields, then $F=K$.

(e) For every integral domain $R$ and every $R$-module $M$, the set of torsion elements is a sub-module. (We say $m\in M$ is a torsion element is there is a nonzero $r\in R$ such that $rm=0$.)

#proof

::