---
draft: true
---

# 2018 Fall Algebra

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Let $G$ be a group of size 42.

(a) Prove that $G$ has a subgroup $H$ of order 6 and any two such subgroups are conjugate in $G$.

(b) Deduce that $G=H\ltimes N$, where $N$ is a normal subgroup of order 7.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Let $p$ be a prime. Show that for any Sylow $p$-subgroup $H\subset GL_n(\F_p)$ there exists a basis in the vector space $V=\F_p^n$ such that $H$ consists of $\F_p$-linear maps given, in that basis, by an upper-triangular matrix with 1 on the diagonal.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
For a group $G$, let $G_1:= G$ and let $G_{n+1}:=[G,G_n]$. We say $G$ is nilpotent if $G_N=1$ for some $N$. Prove that if $G$ is a $p$-group, i.e. $|G|=p^r$ for some prime $p$, then $G$ is nilpotent.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Let $R\subset \Q$ be the subring in the field of rational numbers, given by the fractions $\frac{a}{b}$ with $a\in\Z$ and $b=2^k3^l$ with $k,l\geq 0$. Describe the ideals of $R$. Is $R$ a PID?

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $S = \{a+bi : a,b\in\Z\}\subset\Z$ be the ring of Gaussian integers.

(a) Show that $S$ is a Euclidean Domain.

(b) Find a decomposition of $a=11\in S$ into a product of irreducibles in $S$.

(c) Find a decomposition of $b=13\in S$ into a product of irreducibles in $S$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Let $V$ be a nonzero finite-dimensional vector space over the complex numbers.

(a) If $S$ and $T$ are commuting linear operators on $V$, prove that each eigenspace of $S$ is mapped into itself by $T$.

(b) Let $A_1,\ldots,A_k$ be finitely many linear operators on $V$ that commute pairwise. Prove that they have a common eigenvector in $V$.

(c) If $V$ has dimension $n$, show that these exists a nested sequence of subspaces
$$
0 = V_0 \subset V_1 \subset \cdots \subset V_n = V
$$
where each $V_j$ has dimension $j$ and is mapped into itself by each of the operators $A_1,\ldots,A_k$.

#proof

::
::ProblemBlock{number=7}
#problem
Let $A$ be an $n\times n$ matrix with complex coefficients and assume that every eigenvalue of $A$ satisfies $\Im(\lambda)>0$. Consider the $(2n)\times (2n)$ matrix
$$
B = \begin{bmatrix}
A & 0 \\
0 & \overline{A} \\
\end{bmatrix}
$$
Find the invariant factors of $B$ in terms of the invariant factors of $A$ and prove that $B$ is similar to a real valued matrix.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=8}
#problem
Find the Galois group of $x^6-2$ over $\Q$ and $\F_5$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=9}
#problem
Let $K/F$ be a finite Galois algebraic extension with no proper intermediate fields. Prove that $[K:F]$ is prime.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=10}
#problem
Let $Q$ denote the quaternion group, i.e.
$$
Q = \{\pm 1,\pm i,\pm j,\pm k\}
$$
with $i^2=j^2=k^2=ijk=-1$, $-1\in Z(Q)$, and $(-1)^2=1$.

(a) Classify the conjugacy classes of $Q$.

(b) Constrcut the character table of $Q$.

#proof

::