---
draft: true
---

# 2019 Fall Algebra

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Do there exist groups $G$, $H$ such that $Q_8$ is a semi-direct product of $G$ and $H$?

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Let $G$ be a finite group of order $p^2\cdot q$ where $p<q$ are primes. Prove that either $G$ has a normal Sylow $q$-subgroup of $G$ is isomorphic to $A_4$, the alternating group on 4 letters.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Let $R$ be a ring with $1\neq 0$. Let $N(R)$ be the set of all nilpotent elements of $R$. Prove the following:

(a) If $R$ is commutative then $N(R)$ is an ideal of $R$ and is equal to the intersection of all prime ideals of $R$.

(b) Give an example of a non-commutative ring $R$ such that $N(R)$ is __not__ an ideal of $R$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Work with the ring $\Z[\sqrt{2}]$.

(a) Is $3+\sqrt{2}$ a prime in $\Z[\sqrt{2}]$?

(b) Identify the quotient $\Z/(3+\sqrt{2})$. Which ring is it?

You may want to use the fact that $\Z[\sqrt{2}]$ has a Euclidean norm.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $R$ be a commutative ring with $1\neq 0$. Consider two maximal ideals $I\neq J$ of $R$.

(a) Prove that every elemnt of $R/(I\cap J)$ is either a unit or a zero divisor.

(b) Prove that $R/(I\cap J)$ always has a unit and at least two zero divisors.

(c) Prove that $R/(I\cap J)$ has infinitely many units if and only if it has infinitely many zero divisors.

Recall that a maximal ideal of $R$ is, by definition, a proper ideal of $R$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Assume $F\leq K\leq L$ are field extensions such that both $K/F$ and $L/K$ are algebraic. Prove that $L/F$ is algebraic.

#proof

::
::ProblemBlock{number=7}
#problem
Calculate the Galois group of $x^4-3x^2+4$ over $\Q$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=8}
#problem
Let $K\subseteq \C$ be a field extension of $\Q$ such that $Gal(K/\Q)$ is cyclic of order 4. Prove that $i\notin K$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=9}
#problem
Let $V$ be a finite dimensional vector space over $\F_2$ and let $T:V\to V$ be a linear transformation such that $T^5=I$ but $T\neq I$.

(a) What are the possible degrees of the minimal polynomial of $T$?

(b) Assume there are non-similar linear transformations $S,T:V\to V$ such that $S^5=I=T^5$ but $S\neq I\neq T$. What is the smallest possible dimension of $V$?

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=10}
#problem
Prove that if $A$ is a square matrix over $\C$ then $A$ and its transpose $A^T$ are conjugate over $\C$.

#proof

::