---
draft: true
---

# 2020 Fall Algebra

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Consider $n\geq 2$. Prove that there are permutations $\sigma,\tau\in S_{2n}$ both of order 2 such that $\sigma\circ\tau$ has order $n$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Give an example of a semi-direct product product of two abelian groups which is not abelian. Justify your example by an explanation why it works.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Let $\Q(x)$ be hte field of fractions of the integral domain $\Q[x]$, which is called the __field of rational functions__. For the subring
$$
A = \left\{ \frac{f(x)}{g(x)}\in\Q(x) : g(0)\neq 0 \right\}
$$
of $\Q(x)$, prove the following:

(a) $A$ is a principal ideal domain.

(b) $A$ has a unique irreducible element up to associates.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Consider the ideal $I$ of the polynomial ring $\Z[x]$ which is generated by a prime number $p$ and a non-constant polynomial $f(x)\in\Z[x]$. Prove that $I$ is maximal if and only if $f(x)$ is irreducible modulo $p$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Suppose that $K$ is a field of characteristic 5. For which values of $n\geq 1$ is the polynomial $f(x)=x^n-x$ separable?

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Let $q$ be a prime power. Consider the finite field $\F_q$ as an abelian group under addition. For which $q$ is this group cyclic?

#proof

::
::ProblemBlock{number=7}
#problem
Let $E< F$ be a field extension of degree 5 and $K$ the smallest subfield in the algebraic closure of $E$, such that $K$ is Galois over $E$ and contains $F$. Show that the degree of $K$ over $E$ is at most 120.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=8}
#problem
Give an example of an injective map of abelian group $M_1\to M_2$, and a abelian group $N$, such that $M_1\otimes_\Z N\to M_2\otimes_R N$ is not injective. (Here $\otimes_\Z$ is the tensor product over the ring $\Z$ of integers.) Justify your example by an explanation why it works.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=9}
#problem
For a matrix $A\in M_n(\R)$, prove that the following are equivalent:

(a) The only eigen value of $A$ is $\lambda=0$.

(b) There exists $m\geq 1$ such that $A^m$ is the zero matrix.

(c) $A^n$ is the zero matrix.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=10}
#problem
Suppose that $T:V\to V$ is a linear operator on a finite dimensional vector space $V$ over the field $\Q$ of rational numbers, and that $T$ has characteristic polynomial which is irreducible over $\Q$. Show that the matrix of $T$ (in any basis of $V$) can be diagonalized over the field $\C$ of __complex numbers__.

#proof

::