---
draft: true
---

# 2021 Fall Algebra

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Let $V$ be a vector space over a field $K$. Let $T:V\to V$ be a linear transformation. Let $v,w\in V$ denote eigenvectors of $T$ with distinct eigenvalues. Prove that the set $\{v,w\}$ is linearly independent.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
(a) Let $p$ denote an odd prime. Prove that, up to isomorphism, there are precisely two groups of order $2p$. (The same holds if $p=2$, but you don't need to show that.)

(b) Let $n$ be a positive integer and $p$ be a prime. What is the order of a Sylow $p$-subgroup of $GL_n(\Z/p\Z)$? Give a brief explanation.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Assume $G$ is a group and $A$, $B$ are normal subgroups of $G$ such that the groups $G/A$ and $G/B$ are abelian. You may use without explanation that $A\cap B$ is a normal subgroup of $G$. Prove that $G/(A\cap B)$ is also abelian.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
(a) Let $p$ denote a prime and let $H\leq S_p$ denote a subgroup which acts transitively on $\{1,2,\ldots,p\}$. Show that $H$ contains a $p$-cycle.

(b) Give an example of a subgroup of $S_4$ which acts transitively on $\{1,2,3,4\}$ and which does not contain a 4-cycle.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $f(x)\in\Z[x]$ be any element. Prove that the principal ideal $(f(x))$ is not a maximal ideal in $\Z[x]$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Let $F$ be a field with $7^3$ elements. Prove that 3 is not a square of an element in $F$.

#proof

::
::ProblemBlock{number=7}
#problem
Let $p$ be a prime and $\zeta_p=e^{2\pi i/p}$.

(a) For which $p$ does there exist a subfield $E$ of $\Q(\zeta_p)$ such that $E/\Q$ is a Galois extension with $Gal(E/\Q)\cong \Z/3\Z$. Justify your answer.

(b) Let $E/\Q$ be an extension as in part (a). Prove that $E\subset \R$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=8}
#problem
Let $R$ be an integral domain and let $M$ be an $R$-module. Recall that $Tor(M)$ denotes all $m\in M$ such that there exists $r\in R\setminus\{0\}$ such that $rm=0$. An $R$-module $M$ is called torsion-free if $Tor(M)=\{0\}$.

(a) Prove that $Tor(M)$ is an $R$-submodule of $M$.

(b) Prove that $M/Tor(M)$ is torsion-free.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=9}
#problem
For each of the following, either give an example or briefly explain why no such example exists.

(a) A group $G$ and a subgroup $H\leq G$ such that $G$ is simple and $H$ is not simple.

(b) A non-abelian group $G$ such that the map $G\to G$ given by $g\mapsto g^2$ is a group homomorphism.

(c) A $3\times 3$ real matrix $M$ such that $M^3=-I_3$, where $I_3$ is the $3\times 3$ identity matrix.

(d) A field $K$ and a polynomial $f(x)\in K[x]$ such that the splitting field of $f(x)$ over $K$ is not a Galois extension of $K$.

#proof

::