---
draft: true
---

# 2022 Fall Algebra

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Let $G$ be a group, $X$ be the set of all homomorphisms $H:G\to G$ and $Y$ be the set of all automorphisms of $G$. Consider the group actions of $G$ on $X$, $Y$ defined by $a\cdot h=h\circ f_a$ where $f_a$ is the inner automorphism $f_a(x)=axa^{-1}$.

(a) For the action on $X$: Let $h\in H$. Determine the relationship between the stabilizer of $h$ under this action and teh centralizer $C_G(Im(h))$.

(b) For the action on $Y$: Prove that this action is transitive if and only if all automorphisms of $G$ are inner.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Let $A$ be a finite abelian group. Show that $A$ is cyclic if and only if for any prime $p$ it has either 0 or $p-1$ elements of order $p$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Let $\F_p$ denote the field with $p$ elements. Find the order of a Sylow $p$-subgroup of the group $G=GL_3(\F_p)$ and give an example of a Sylow $p$-subgroup.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Let $R$ be a commutative ring with identity and $I\subset R$ an ideal such that $R/I\cong \Z$. Show that there are infinitely many maximal ideals in $R$ that contain $I$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $R$ be a unique factorization domain in which there exists a unique irreducible element up to associates.

(a) Prove that $R$ is a principal ideal domain.

(b) Show that $R$ has a unique maximal ideal and a unique non-maximal prime ideal.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Let $K\subset F$ be a submodule in a module over a commutative ring $R$ which is a PID. Assuming that $F$ is free of finite rank, show that $K$ is also free of finite rank.

#proof

::
::ProblemBlock{number=7}
#problem
Consdier the ring $R=\Z[x]$ and the ideal $I=(2,x)$ of $R$ generated by elements 2 and $x$. Notive that the rings $R/I$ and $\Z/2\Z$ are isomorphic.

(a) Prove that the map $\varphi:I\times I\to \Z/2\Z$ defined by
$$
\varphi(a_0+a_1x+\cdots+a_nx^n,b_0+b_1x+\cdots+b_mx^m)=\frac{a_0}{2}b_1 \mod 2
$$
is $R$-balanced (i.e. it is additive in each component, and $\varphi(m,rn)=\varphi(mr,n)$ for all $m,n\in I$ and $r\in R$).

(b) Prove that the element $2\otimes x-x\otimes 2\neq 0$ in $I\otimes_R I$.

(c) Prove that the element $2\otimes x-x\otimes 2$ is annihilated by both 2 adn $x$ in $I\otimes_R I$.

(d) Prove that the submodule of $I\otimes_R I$ generated by the element $2\otimes x-x\otimes 2$ is isomorphic to $R/I$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=8}
#problem
Assume $F$ is a field and $F(\alpha)$ is a finite field extension of $F$ of odd degree. Prove that $F(\alpha^2)=F(\alpha)$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=9}
#problem
Let $F\supset \Z_2$ be a field with 64 elements and $\alpha\in H^*=F\setminus\{0\}$. Suppose that $\alpha$ has order $d\geq 8$ in the multiplicative group $F^*$. Show that $\alpha$ generates the field $F$ over $\Z_2$, i.e. $\Z_2(\alpha)=F$.

#proof

::

::ProblemBlock{number=10}
#problem
Let $\Q\subset K$ be a Galois extension with Galois group isomorphic to $S_5$ and $L=K^C$ the fixed point subfield of the cyclic subgroup $C\subset S_5$ generated by the 5-cycle $\tau=(1\,2\,3\,4\,5)$. Find the number of different subfields $L'$ in $K$ which are isomorphic to $L$ (including the case $L'=L$).

#proof

::