# 2006 Fall Real Analysis

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Given a measure space $(X,\mathfrak{A},\mu)$, let $f$ be a nonnegative extended real-valued $\mathfrak{A}$-measurable function on a set $D\in\mathfrak{A}$ with $\mu(D)<\infty$. Let $D_n = \{ x\in D : f(x)\geq n\}$ for $n\in\N$. Show that $\int_D f\, d\mu<\infty$ if and only if $\sum_{n\in\N} \mu(D_n)<\infty$.

#proof
We  have the following inequalities
$$
\sum_{n=1}^\infty n(\mu(D_{n-1})-\mu(D_n))\geq \int_D fd\mu\geq \sum_{n=1}^\infty (n-1)(\mu(D_{n-1})-\mu(D_n)).
$$
By [Abel's summation formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abel's_summation_formula), we have 
$$
\sum_{n=1}^N n(\mu(D_{n-1})-\mu(D_n))=\sum_{n=0}^{N-1}\mu(D_n)-N\mu(D_N). 
$$
Thus if $\sum_{n\in\N} \mu(D_n)<\infty$, then $\int_D f\, d\mu<\infty$. On the other hand, if 
$\int_D f\, d\mu<\infty$, then 
$$
N\mu(D_N)\leq\int_D fd\mu<\infty.
$$
We thus have 
$$
\sum_{n=1}^\infty \mu(D_N)= \sum_{n=1}^\infty (n-1)(\mu(D_{n-1})-\mu(D_n))+(N-1)\mu(D_N)\leq \int_D fd\mu+(N-1)\mu(D_N)<\infty.
$$
::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Let $(X,\mathfrak{A},\mu)$ be a $\sigma$-finite measure space and let $f$ and $g$ be extended real-valued $\mathcal{A}$-measurable functions on $X$. Show that if $\int_E f\, d\mu = \int_E g\, d\mu$ for every $E\in\mathfrak{A}$ then $f=g$ a.e. on $X$.

#proof
Since $\int_E(f-g)d\mu=0$ for all measurable set $E$, we get the conclusion by approximating $f-g$ by simple functions. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Let $f$ be an integrable function on a measure space $(X,\mathcal{B},\mu)$. Show that:

(a) The set $\{f\neq 0\}$ is of $\sigma$-finite measure.

(b) If $f\geq 0$, then $f = \lim_n \phi_n$ pointwise for some increasing sequence of simple functions $\phi_n$ each of which vanishes outside a set of finite measure.

(c) For every $\eps>0$ there is a simple function $\phi$ such that 
$$
\int_X |f-\phi|\, d\mu < \eps.
$$

#proof
(a). For any $j\in\N$, we have 
$$
j^{-1}\mu\{|f|>j^{-1}\}\leq \int_X fd\mu<\infty. 
$$
Thus the set $\{|f|>j^{-1}\}$ is of finite measure, and hence 
$$
\{f\neq 0\}=\{|f|>0\}=\bigcup_{j=1}^\infty\{|f|>j^{-1}\}
$$
is $\sigma$-finite. 

(b), (c) I don't know what to prove?
::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Let $\{f_n\}$ and $\{g_n\}$ be sequences of measurable functions on the measurable set $E$, and let $f$ and $g$ be measurable functions on set $E$. Suppose $f_n\to f$ and $g_n\to g$ in measure. Is it true that $f_n^3+g_n\to f^3+g$ in measure if

(a) $m(E)=2$.

(b) $m(E)=\infty$.

#proof
(a). It is true. Let $E_m=\{|f(x)>m\}$. Then $\mu(E_m)\to 0$ as $m\to\infty$. For any $\eps>0$, we can find an $m$ such that
$\mu(E_m)<\eps$. For this $m$, if $x\not\in E_m$, we must have 
$$
|f_n^3-f^3|=|f_n-f|\cdot (f_n^2+f_nf+f^2)\leq 3m^2|f_n-f|.
$$
Thus we have 
$$
\{|f_n^3+g_n-f^3-g|\geq\eps\}\subset
\{|f_n^3 -f^3|\geq\eps/2\}\cup \{|g_n-g|\geq\eps/2\}\cup E_m\subset 
\{|f_n^3 -f^3|\geq\eps/6m^2\}\cup \{|g_n-g|\geq\eps/2\}\cup E_m.
$$
Thus if $n\gg 0$, then the above measure goes to zero.

(b). It is not true. Let $E=[0,\infty)$. Let $f(x)=x$. $f_n(x)=f(x)=\frac 1n1_{[n,n+1]}$. Apparently
$f_n\to f$ in measure. But on the other hand, if $x\in[n,n+1]$, 
$$
f_n(x)\geq x^2+3\frac{x^2}{n}\geq f(x) +3n.
$$
Thus $f_n^3$ doesn't convergent to $f^3$ in measure. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Suppose $f\in L^1[0,1]$. Let $F(x) = \int_0^x f(t)\, dt$. Let $\phi$ be a Lipshitz function (i.e. $|\phi(x)-\phi(y)|\leq M|x-y|$ for some $M<\infty$). Show that there exists $g\in L^1[0,1]$ such that $\phi(F(x)) = \int_0^x g(t)\, dt$.

#proof
We need to prove that $\phi(F)$ is absolutely continuous with respect to the Lebesgue measure. For any $\eps>0$, there exists a $\delta>0$ such that for any sequence of real numbers 
$$
x_1<y_1<x_2<y_2<\cdots<x_r<y_r
$$
with $\sum (y_i-x_i)<\delta$, we have 
$$
\sum_{i=1}^r |F(x_i)-F(y_i)|=\int_E f(x) dx\leq\eps,
$$
where $E=\bigcup (x_i, y_i)$. We thus have 
$$
\sum_{i=1}^r |\phi(F(x_i))-\phi(F(y_i))|\leq M \sum_{i=1}^r |F(x_i)-F(y_i)|<M\eps.
$$
This $\phi(F)$ is absolutely continuous, and hence $g$ in question exists. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
(a) Suppose $f\in L^p[0,1]$, $p>1$. Show that $\displaystyle \lim_{t\to 0} t^{-1+\frac{1}{p}} \int_0^t f(x)\, dx = 0$.

(b) Suppose $\displaystyle \int_0^1 x^{-1}|f|^3\, dx<\infty$. Show that $\lim_{t\to 0} t^{-1}\int_0^t f(x)\, dx = 0$.

#proof
We use [Hölder's inequality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hölder%27s_inequality) to prove both problems. 

(a). We have 
$$
\left|\int_0^tf(x) dx\right|\leq\left(\int_0^t |f(x)|^p\right)^{1/p}\cdot t^{1/q}.
$$
Thus
$$
t^{-1+\frac{1}{p}} \left|\int_0^t f(x)\, dx \right|\leq \left(\int_0^t |f(x)|^p\right)^{1/p}.
$$
By [Dominated convergence theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominated_convergence_theorem), we have
$$
\lim_{t\to 0}\left(\int_0^t |f(x)|^p\right)^{1/p}=\lim_{t\to 0}\left(\int_0^1 1_{[0,t]}|f(x)|^p\right)^{1/p}=0.
$$

(b). Using Hölder's inequality, we have 
$$
\left|t^{-1}\int_0^t f(x)\, dx\right|=\left|t^{-1}\int_0^t x^{-1/3}f(x)\, x^{1/3}\,dx\right|
\leq \left(\frac 23\right)^{2/3}\cdot\left(\int_0^t x^{-1}|f|^3\, dx\right)^{1/3}.
$$
By Dominated convergence theorem, we prove the result. 
::