# 2007 Fall Real Analysis

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Let $1\leq p<q<\infty$. Which of the following statements are true and which are false? Justify.

(a) $L^p(\R,\mathfrak{M}_L,\mu_L)\subset L^q(\R,\mathfrak{M}_L,\mu_L)$.

(b) $L^q(\R,\mathfrak{M}_L,\mu_L)\subset L^p(\R,\mathfrak{M}_L,\mu_L)$.

(c) $L^p([2,5],\mathfrak{M}_L,\mu_L)\subset L^q([2,5],\mathfrak{M}_L,\mu_L)$.

(d) $L^q([2,5],\mathfrak{M}_L,\mu_L)\subset L^p([2,5],\mathfrak{M}_L,\mu_L)$.

#proof
This is very similar to [Problem 1 of 2019 Fall Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2019-fall/).
::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Does there exist a Lebesgue measurable subset $A$ of $\R$ such that for every interval $(a,b)$ we have $\mu_L(A\cap (a,b))=\frac{b-a}{2}$? Either construct such a set or prove it does not exist.

#proof
This is the same as [Problem 4 of 2022 Spring Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2022-spring/).
::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Let $f$ be a real valued measurable function on the finite measure space $(X,\Sigma,\mu)$. Prove that the function $F(x,y) = f(x)-5f(y)+4$ is measurable in the product measure space $(X\times X,\sigma(\Sigma\times \Sigma),\mu\times \mu)$, and that $F$ is integrable if and only if $f$ is integrable.

#proof
This is the same as [Problem 6 of 2011 Fall Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2011-fall).
::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Let $f\in L^{3/2}([0,5],\mathfrak{M}_L,\mu_L)$. Prove that
$$
\lim_{t\downarrow 0} \frac{1}{t^{1/3}} \int_0^t f(s)\, ds = 0.
$$

#proof
This is very similar to [Problem 2 of 2017 Fall Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2017-fall).
::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $(f_n : n\in\N)$ be a sequence of real-valued functions and $f$ be a real-valued function on $[a,b]$ such that $\displaystyle \lim_{n\to\infty} f_n(x) = f(x)$ for $x\in[a,b]$. Let $V_a^b(f)$ be the total variation of $f$ on $[a,b]$. Show that 
$$
V_a^b(f) \leq \liminf_{n\to\infty} V_a^b(f_n).
$$

#proof
This is the same as [Problem 1 of 2022 Winter Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2022-winter/).
::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Let $f\in L^1(\R,\mathfrak{M}_L,\mu_L)$. With $h>0$ fixed, define a function $\varphi_h$ on $\R$ by setting
$$
\varphi_h(x) = \frac{1}{2h} \int_{[x-h,x+h]}f(t)\, \mu_L(dx) \quad \text{for } x\in\R.
$$

(a) Show that $\varphi_h$ is $\mathfrak{M}_L$-measurable on $\R$.

(b) Show that $\varphi_h\in L^1(\R,\mathfrak{M}_L,\mu_L)$ and $\|\varphi_h\|_1\leq\|f\|_1$.

#proof
(a). is obvious. In fact, $\phi_h$ is absolutely continuous.

(b). is very similar to [Problem 3 of 2009 Spring Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2009-spring).
::