# 2008 Fall Real Analysis

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Let $f$ be a Lebesgue integrable function of the real line. Prove that
$$
\lim_{n\to\infty} \int_{-\infty}^\infty f(x)\sin(nx)\,  dx =0.
$$

#proof
Let $g(x)\in\mathcal C_0^\infty(\R)$ such that 
$$
\int_{-\infty}^\infty |g(x)-f(x)| dx<\eps.
$$
We compute that 
$$
\int_{-\infty}^\infty g(x) \sin nx dx=-\frac 1n\int_{-\infty}^\infty g'(x)\cos nx.
$$
Thus 
$$
\int_{-\infty}^\infty f(x)\sin(nx)\,  dx \leq\eps +\frac 1n \int_{-\infty}^\infty |g'(x)| dx.
$$
The theorem follows. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Let $g$ be an absolutely continuous monotone function on $[0,1]$. Prove that, if $E\subset[0,1]$ is a set of Lebesgue measure zero, then the set $g(E) = \{g(x) : x\in E\}\subset\R$ is also a set of Lebegue measure zero.

#proof
This essentially follows from the absolute  continuity. Assume that $g$ is monotonically increasing. Let $\eps>0$, then there is a $\delta$ such that if $U\supset E$ is an open set with $m(U)<\delta$, and we write
$$
U=\bigcup_{j=1}^\infty (a_i, b_i).
$$
Then 
$$
\sum_{j=1}^\infty |g(b_j)-g(a_j)|<\eps. 
$$
However, since 
$$
\bigcup_{j=1}^\infty (g(a_j), g(b_j))\subset g(E),
$$
we know that $m(g(E))<\eps$ for any $\eps$, concluding the theorem.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Let $\nu$ be a finite Borel measure on the real line, and set $F(x) = \nu((-\infty,x)])$. Prove that $\nu$ is absolutely continuous with respect to the Lebesgue measure $\mu_L$ if and only if $F$ is an absolutely continuous function. In this case show that its Radon-Nikodym derivative is the derivative of $F$, that is, $\frac{d\nu}{d\mu_L} = F'$ almost everywhere.

#proof
This problem is almost the same as the above problem.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Let $\mu$ be a measure and let $\lambda$, $\lambda_1$, $\lambda_2$ be signed measures on the measurable space $(X,\mathcal{A})$. Prove:

(a) If $\lambda\perp\mu$ and $\lambda\ll\mu$ then $\lambda=0$.

(b) If $\lambda_1\perp\mu$ and $\lambda_2\perp\mu$, then, if we set $\lambda = c_1\lambda_1+c_2\lambda_2$ with $c_1$, $c_2$ real numbers such that $\lambda$ is a signed measure, we have $\lambda\perp\mu$.

(c) If $\lambda_1\ll\mu$ and $\lambda_2\ll\mu$, then, if we set $\lambda=c_1\lambda_1+c_2\lambda_2$ with $c_1$, $c_2$ real numbers such that $\lambda$ is a signed measure, we have $\lambda\ll\mu$.

#proof
(a). Since $\lambda\perp \mu$, there is a set $E$ such that $|\lambda|(E)=0$ and $\mu(E^c)=0$. However, since 
$\lambda\ll \mu$, for any subset $Y\subset E^c$, we have $\lambda (Y)=\mu(Y)=0$. Thus $|\lambda|(E^c)=0$.

(b), (c) are obvious.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $(X,\mathcal{A},\mu)$ be a measure space. Let $\{f_n\}_{n\in\N}$ and $f$ be extended real-valued $\mathcal{A}$-measurable functions on a set $D\in\mathcal{A}$ such that $\lim_{n\to\infty} f_n=f$ on $D$. Then for every $\alpha\in\R$ we have

(a) $\displaystyle \mu(\{x\in D : f(x)>\alpha\})\leq \liminf_{n\to\infty} \mu(\{ x\in D : f_n(x)\geq\alpha \})$.

(b) $\displaystyle \mu(\{x\in D : f(x)<\alpha\}) \leq \liminf_{n\to\infty} \mu(\{x\in D : f_n(x)\leq\alpha\})$.

#proof
(a). We have
$$
\{x\in D : f(x)>\alpha\}\subset \bigcap_{k=1}^\infty\bigcup_{j>k} \{ x\in D : f_j(x)\geq\alpha \}.
$$
Then (a) follows. 

I suspect (b) should be 
$$
$\displaystyle \mu(\{x\in D : f(x)<\alpha\}) \leq \limsup_{n\to\infty} \mu(\{x\in D : f_n(x)\leq\alpha\})$.
$$
Then it follows by the [De Morgan's laws](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/De_Morgan%27s_laws).
::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Let $(X,\mathcal{A},\mu)$ be a measure space. Let $\{f_n\}_{n\in\N}$ and $f$ be a sequence of extended real-valued $\mathcal{A}$-measurable functions on a set $D\in\mathcal{A}$ with $\mu(D)<\infty$. Show that $f_n$ converges to 0 in measure on $D$ if and only if $\displaystyle \lim_{n\to\infty} \int_D \frac{|f_n|}{1+|f_n|}\, d\mu = 0$.

#proof
This is the same as [Problem 2 of 2020 Fall Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2020-fall).
::