# 2010 Fall Real Analysis

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Consider a measure space $(X,\mathcal{A},\mu)$ and a sequence of measurable sets $E_n$, $n\in\N$, such that $\sum_n \mu(E_n)<\infty$. Show that almost every $x\in X$ is an element of at most finitely many $E_n$.

#proof
This is the same as [Problem 1 of 2023 Winter Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2023-winter).
::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Consider a measure space $(X,\mathcal{A},\mu)$ with $\mu(X)<\infty$, and a sequence $f_n:X\to\R$ of measurable functions such that $\lim_{n\to\infty} f_n(x)=f(x)$ for all $x\in X$. Show that for every $\eps>0$ there exists a set $E$ of measure $\mu(E)\leq \eps$ such that $(f_n)$ converges uniformly to $f$ outside the set $E$.

#proof
This is the [Egorov's theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Egorov%27s_theorem). The key is to write 
$$
X=\bigcap_{j=1}^\infty\bigcup_{m=1}^\infty\bigcap_{n>m}\{x\mid |f_n(x)-f(x)|<j^{-1}\}.
$$
Thus we have
$$
\emptyset =\bigcup_{j=1}^\infty\bigcap_{m=1}^\infty\bigcup_{n>m}\{x\mid |f_n(x)-f(x)|\geq j^{-1}\}.
$$
In other words, for any $j$, we have 
$$
\mu(\bigcap_{m=1}^\infty\bigcup_{n>m}\{x\mid |f_n(x)-f(x)|\geq j^{-1}\})=0.
$$
Let $\eps>0$b be any small positive number. Since $\mu(X)<\infty$, then for each $j$, there is an $m_j$ such that 
$$
\mu (\bigcup_{n>m_j}\{x\mid |f_n(x)-f(x)|\geq j^{-1}\})<\frac{\eps}{2^j}.
$$
It follows that 
$$
\mu(E)=\mu(\bigcup_{j=1}^\infty \bigcup_{n>m_j}\{x\mid |f_n(x)-f(x)|\geq j^{-1}\})\leq\eps.
$$
Since 
$$
E^c=\bigcap_{j=1}^\infty \bigcap_{n>m_j}\{x\mid |f_n(x)-f(x)|<j^{-1}\},
$$
$f_n$ is convergent to $f$ uniformly on $E^c$.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Suppose that $f\in L^p([0,1])$ for some $p>2$. Prove that $g(x) = f(x^2)\in L^1([0,1])$.

#proof
We have
$$
\int_0^1 f(x^2) dx=\int_0^1 f(x) \frac{1}{2\sqrt x}dx.
$$
By [Hölder's inequality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hölder%27s_inequality), we have 
$$
\int_0^1 f(x)\frac{1}{\sqrt x} dx \leq \|f\|_{L^p}\cdot\left(\int_0^1 x^{-q/2} dx\right)^{1/q},
$$
where $q=p/(p-1)<2$. Therefore $x^{-q/2}$ is integrable and this completes the proof.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Assume $E\subset [0,1]$ is measurable and for any $(a,b)\subset [0,1]$,
$$
\mu(E\cap [a,b])\geq\frac12 (b-a).
$$
Show that $\mu(E)=1$.

#proof
This is very similar to  [Problem 4 of 2022 Spring Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2022-spring/). Let
$f(x) =1_E-1/2$. Then we have 
$$
\int_a^b f(x) dx\geq 0.
$$
Thus on any measurable set $F$,
$$
\int_F f(x) dx\geq 0.
$$
As a result, we know that $f(x)\geq 0$ a.e.. Thus for a.e. $x\in [0,1]$, $1_E(x)\geq 1/2>0$. So $1_E(x)=1$.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $f$ be a real-valued uniformly continuous function on $[0,\infty)$. Show that if $f$ is Lebesgue integrable on $[0,\infty)$, then $\lim_{x\to\infty}f(x)=0$.

#proof
This is the same as [Problem 4 of 2010 Spring Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2010-spring).
::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Consider the Lebesgue measure space $(\R,\mathfrak{M}_L,\mu_L)$ on $\R$. Let $f$ be an extended real-valued $\mathfrak{M}_L$-measurable function on $\R$. For $x\in \R$ and $r>0$ let $B_r(x) = \{y\in\R : |y-x|<r \}$.

With $r>0$ fixed, define a function $g$ on $\R$ by setting
$$
g(x) = \int_{B_r(x)} f(y)\, \mu_L(dy) \quad \text{ for } x\in\R.
$$

(a) Suppose $f$ is locally $\mu_L$-integrable on $\R$, that is, $f$ is $\mu_L$-integrable on every bounded $\mathfrak{M}_L$-measurable set in $\R$. Show that $g$ is a real-valued continuous function on $\R$.

(b) Show that if $f$ is $\mu_L$-integrable on $\R$ then $g$ is uniformly continuous on $\R$.

#proof
(a). Let $x_1>x$, we can write 
$$
g(x_1)-g(x) =\int_{x_1-r}^{x_1+r} f(y) \, \mu_L(dy)-\int_{x-r}^{x+r} f(y) \, \mu_L(dy)
=
\int_{x-r}^{x_1-r} f(y) \, \mu_L(dy)+\int_{x+r}^{x_1+r} f(y) \, \mu_L(dy).
$$
Continuity follows from the local integrability and the [Dominated convergence theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominated_convergence_theorem).

(b). To prove the uniform continuity, we just need to note that since $f$ is in $L^1$, then $g(x)\to 0$ as $x\to\infty$. Any continuous function on $\R$ with limit exists at infinity must be uniformly continuous. One of the proof is as follows: compactify $\R$ by adding the infinity point to get a compact space $S^1$. The limit at infinity exists means that the function can be extended as a continuous function on $S^1$. Since $S^1$ is a compact space, any continuous function on it must be uniformly continuous. 
::