# 2011 Fall Real Analysis

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Let a measurable bounded set $X\subset \R^n$ has the property that every continuous $f:X\to\R$ is uniformly continuous. Show that X is compact.

#proof

$X$ is compact if and only if $X$ is closed. If $p\in \R^n \backslash E$ and $p$ is a limt point of $E$. We consider a continuous function

$$
f(x)=\frac{1}{\|x-p\|}.
$$

we shall prove that $f(x)$ is _not_ uniform continuous. Let
$\{x_i\}$ be a sequence of $E$ such that $x_i\to p$. Since $f(x_i)\to\infty$,
we can inductively choose a subsequence $x_{i_k}$ such that

$$
|f(x_{i_k})-f(x_{i_{k+1}})|>1.
$$

Therefore $f$ is not uniformly continuous, a contradiction.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem

(a). For any $\eps>0$ construct an open set $U_\eps\subset (0,1)$ so that
$U_\eps \supset \mathbb Q\cap (0,1)$ and $m(U_\eps)<\eps$.
Here and later $m$ stands for the Lebesgue measure.

(b). Let $A=\cup_{n=1}^\infty U^c_{1/n}$. Find $m(A)$. Show that $A^c\cap (1/2,5/16)\neq\emptyset$.

#proof

(a). Let $\{y_k\}$ be the sequence of rational numbers in $(0,1)$. for any $\eps>0$, we define

$$
U_\eps =\bigcup_{k=1}^\infty \left(y_k-\frac{1}{(k+\eps^{-1})^2},y_k+\frac{1}{(k+\eps^{-1})^2}\right).
$$

Then

$$
   m(U_\eps)\leq \sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{2}{(k+\eps^{-1})^2}\leq 2\int_{\eps^{-1}}^\infty \frac{1}{x^2} dx=2\eps.
$$

(b). We have

$$
A^c=\bigcap_{n=1}^\infty U_{1/n}.
$$

Thus for any $n$,
$m(A^c)\leq m(U_{1/n})\leq 1/n$. Thus $m(A^c)=0$ and $m(A)=1$. Since $A^c$ contains all the reational numbers,
we have $A^c\cap (1/2,5/16)\neq\emptyset$.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem

Show that either a $\sigma$-algebra of subsets of a set $X$
is finite, or else it has uncountably many elements.

[(Hint: if the $\sigma$-algebra is not finite,
how many pairwise disjoint elements does it necessarily contain?)]{.text-green-700}

#proof

If the $\sigma$-algebra $\mathfrak F$ on a masure space $X$ contains a collection of infinite disjoint subsets, then the power set of this
collection would be uncountable. Otherwise, let
$\{A_i\}_{i=1}^N$ be a finite collection of subsets of the $\sigma$-algebra. Assume that
$N$ is the maximal number of such collections. the we claim that
$$
\bigcup_{i=1}^N A_i=X,
    $$
because otherwise $X\backslash \bigcup_{i=1}^N A_i$ would provide one more. Let $Y\in\mathfrak F$ be
a subset. Then if $Y$ is not one of the $A_i$'s, we must have an $i$ such that $Y\cap A_i\neq\emptyset$ but
$Y\neq A_i$. Thus $A_i$ splits into two disjoint subsets $Y\cap A_i$ and $Y\cap A_i^c$, contradicting
to the fact that $N$ is the maximum number of disjoint collections.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem

Let $f:\R\to\R$ be absolutely continuous and assume that
$f'\in L^2([0,1])$ and that $f(0)=0$. Show that the following limit exists and compute its value.

$$
\lim_{x\to 0^+} x^{-1/2} f(x).
$$

#proof

The limit is equal to $0$.
Since $f$ is absolutely continuous and $f(0)=0$, we have

$$
f(x)=\int_0^xf'(t) dt.
$$

Therefore by Cauchy inequality we have

$$
|f(x)|\leq \sqrt x \cdot\sqrt{\int_0^x|f'(t)|^2 dt}.
$$

Since $f'\in L^2([0,1])$, we must have
\[
\lim\_{x\to 0}\int_0^x|f'(t)|^2 dt=0
\]
by the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominated_convergence_theorem">
Lebesgue's Dominated Convergence Theorem. This completes the computation.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem

Let $S\subset\R$ be a closed set and let $f\in L^1([0,1])$. Assume that for all
measurable $E\subset [0,1]$
with $m(E)>0$, we have

$$
\frac{1}{m(E)}\int_E f\in S.
$$

Prove that $f(x)\in S$ for a.e. $x\in[0,1]$.

#proof

We prove by contradiction. Let $E$ be a positive measure set such that for all $x\in E$,
$f(x)\not \in S$. Since $S$ is a closed set, $S^c$ is open. As a result, we are able to write

$$
S^c=\bigcup_{j=1}^\infty (a_j, b_j)
$$

of disjoint open intervals. Since

$$
\sum_{j=1}^\infty m(E\cap f^{-1}(a_j,b_j))=m(E)>0,
$$

there exsits an $j$ such that
$m(E\cap f^{-1}(a_j,b_j))>0$. Since

$$
(a_j, b_j)=\bigcup_{k\gg 0}^\infty (a_j+k^{-1}, b_j-k^{-1}),
$$

there exists an $k$ such that $m(F)>0$, where $F=E\cap f^{-1}(a_j+k^{-1},b_j-k^{-1})$. Thus we have a contradiction

$$
a_j+k^{-1}\leq\frac{1}{m(F)}\int_F f\leq b_j-k^{-1}
$$

which is not in $S$.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem

If $g$ is a Lebesgue measurable real-valued function on
$[0, 1]$ such that the function $f(x,y)=5g(x)-7g(y)$
is Lebesgue integrable over the square $[0,1]\times[0,1]$.
Show that $g$ is Lebesgue integrable over $[0, 1]$.

#proof

Let $C$ be a constant so that

$$
m(E)>0,
$$

where $E=\{y\mid |g(y)|< C \}$.
We thus have

$$
\int_0^1\int_{E}|5g(x)-7g(y)|dxdy\leq \iint |5g(x)-7g(y)|<\infty.
$$

Therefore we have

$$
5\,m(E)\int_0^1|g(x)| dx=
\int_0^1\int_{E}5|g(x)| dxdy
$$

$$
    \leq
\int_0^1\int_{E}|5g(x)-7g(y)| dxdy
+7 \int_0^1\int_{E}|g(y)|dxdy
$$

$$
\leq
\int_0^1\int_{E}|5g(x)-7g(y)| dxdy
+7 C.
$$

Thus $g(x)$ is integrable.
::
