# 2013 Fall Real Analysis

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Let $f\in L^p([0,1])$ for every $p\in [1,\infty]$. Show that
$$
\|f\|_\infty = \lim_{p\to\infty} \|f\|_p.
$$

#proof
First, we have 
$$
\int_{[0,1]} |f|^p dx\leq \int_{[0,1]} \|f\|_\infty^p dx=\|f\|_\infty^p.
$$
Thus 
$$
\limsup_{p\to\infty }\|f\|_p\leq \|f\|_\infty.
$$
On the other hand, let $\eps>0$ and let $E_\eps=\{x\mid |f(x)|>\|f\|_\infty-\eps\}$. Then $m(E)>0$. We thus have 
$$
\int_{[0,1]} |f|^p dx\geq \int_{E} |f|^p dx=(\|f\|_\infty-\eps)^p\cdot m(E).
$$
Thus 
$$
\|f\|_p\geq (\|f\|_\infty-\eps)(m(E))^{1/p}\to \|f\|_\infty-\eps.
$$
As a result
$$
\liminf_{p\to\infty }\|f\|_p\geq \|f\|_\infty-\eps.
$$
Since $\eps$ is arbitrary, we prove the result. 
::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Assume that $E$ is a subset of $\R^2$ and the distance between any two points in $E$ is a rational number. Show that $E$ is a countable set. (Note that this is actually true in any dimension.)

#proof
Let $p,q\in E$ be two distinct points. Then any $x\in E$n must be in the intersection of two circles centered at $p,q$ respectively with rational radii. Since   one can only have countably many circles with rational radius centred at a fixed point, and since two circles can intersect at most two points. $E$ must be countable. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Let $f$ be a non-negative measurable function on $\R$. Prove that if $\sum_{n=-\infty}^\infty f(x+n)$ is integrable, then $f=0$ a.e.

#proof
By the [Monotone convergence theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monotone_convergence_theorem), the series 
$$
\sum_{n\in\mathbb Z}\int_\R f(x+n)dx 
$$
is convergent. In particular
$$
\int_\R f(x) dx=\int_\R f(x+n) dx\to 0
$$
as $n\to\infty$. This can only happens when $f(x)$ is zero almost everywhere. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
For each $n\geq 2$, we define $f_n:[0,1]\to\R$ as follows:
$$
f_n(x) = \begin{cases}
n^2 & \text{for } x\in [\frac{i}{n},\frac{i}{n}+\frac{1}{n^3}] \text{ and } i=0,1,\ldots,n-1 \\
0 & \text{otherwise} \\
\end{cases}.
$$

(a) Show that
$$
\lim_{n\to +\infty} f_n = 0 \text{ for a.e. } x\in[0,1].
$$

(b) For $g\in \mathcal C[0,1]$, what is
$$
\lim_{n\to+\infty} \int_{[0,1]} f_n(x)g(x)\, dx \text{ ?}
$$
Justify your answer.

(c) Bonus Problem: Is your answer to question (b) still valid for all $g\in L^\infty(0,1)$? Justify.

#proof
(a). Let $E_n=\{x\mid f_n(x)\neq 0\}$. Then we have $m(E_n)\leq n^{-2}$. Thus 
$$
m(\bigcup_{m>n}E_m)\leq \sum_{m>n}\frac{1}{m^2}<\frac 1n.
$$
As a result, we have 
$$
m(E)=m\left(\bigcap_{n=1}^\infty\bigcup_{m>n}E_m\right)=0.
$$
It is not hard to prove that if $x\not\in E$, then $f_n(x)\to 0$.

(b). We claim that 
$$
\lim_{n\to+\infty} \int_{[0,1]} f_n(x)g(x)\, dx =\int_0^1 g(x) dx.
$$
For any $\eps>0$, for $n\gg 0$, we shall have $|g(x)-g(i/n)|<\eps$ if $x\in [i/n,i/n+n^{-3}]$.  Consider the Riemann sum
$$
\sum_{i=0}^{n-1} \frac 1n g(\frac in)
$$
and
$$
\int_0^1 f_n(x) g(x) dx=\sum_{i=0}^{n-1} n^2\int_{i/n}^{i/n+n^{-3}} g(x) dx. 
$$
Their difference is no more than $\eps$. On the other hand, the Riemann sum tends to the definite integral as $n\to\infty$. This completes the proof of the claim.

(c). If we only assume that $g$ is bounded measurable, the above claim is not true anymore. For example if we write $n=2^k$, and define $g$ as
$$
g=\sum_{i,k} 1_{[\frac i{2^k}, \frac i{2^k}+\frac 1{2^{3k}}]}.
$$
Then it is not hard ro verify that 
$$
\int_0^1 f_{2^k}(x) g(x) dx=1,
$$
while 
$$
\int_0^1 g(x) dx<1.
$$
::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $A = \{(x,y)\in[0,1]^2 : x+y\notin\Q,\, xy\notin\Q \}$. Find $\int_A y^{-1/2}\sin(x)\, dm_2$ where $m_2$ is the Lebesgue measure in $\R^2$. Fully justify your steps.

#proof
We claim that $A^c$ is of measure zero. To see this, we observe that 
$$
A^c=\{(x,y)\in[0,1]^2\mid x+y\in\Q\}\bigcup \{(x,y)\in[0,1]^2\mid xy\in\Q\}.
$$
Let $q_k$ be the sequence of rational numbers. Then
$$
\begin{split}
&\{(x,y)\in[0,1]^2\mid x+y\in\Q\}=\bigcup_{k=1}^\infty \{(x,y)\in[0,1]^2\mid x+y=q_k\};\\
&\{(x,y)\in[0,1]^2\mid xy\in\Q\}=\bigcup_{k=1}^\infty \{(x,y)\in[0,1]^2\mid xy=q_k\}
\end{split}
$$
and apparently these are all of measure zero sets. 

Finally, we have 
$$
\int_A y^{-1/2}\sin(x)\, dm_2=\int_{[0,1]^2} y^{-1/2}\sin(x)\, dm_2=2(1-\cos 1).
$$
::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Suppose that $f_n\in L^4(X,\mu)$ with $\|f_n\|_4\leq 1$ and $f_n\to 0$ $\mu$-a.e. on $X$. Show that for every $g\in L^{4/3}(X,\mu)$,
$$
\int_X f_n(x)g(x)\, d\mu(x) \to 0
$$
as $n\to \infty$.

Hint: First consider the case when $X$ is of finite measure.

#proof
For any $\eps>0$, there is a subset $X_0\subset X$ with finite measure such that 
$$
\int_{X\backslash X_0} |g(x)|^{4/3} d\mu(x)<\eps.
$$
On $X_0$, we use [Egorov's theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Egorov%27s_theorem). There is a set $E$ with 
$\mu(E)$ sufficiently small that outside $E$, the convergence of $f_n$ is uniform. By 
the [Dominated convergence theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominated_convergence_theorem),
we may assume that 
$$
\int_{E} |g(x)|^{4/3} d\mu(x)<\eps.
$$
Thus by [Hölder's inequality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hölder%27s_inequality), we have
$$
\left|\int_X f_n(x)g(x)\, d\mu(x)\right|\leq \int_{X\backslash (X_0\cup E)}f_n(x) g(x) d\mu(x)+(2\eps)^{3/4}\|f_n\|_{4}.
$$
Since $\|f_n\|_4\leq 1$ and since the convergence of $f_n$ to $0$ is uniform on $X\backslash (X_0\cup E)$, the 
conclusion follows. 
::