# 2014 Fall Real Analysis

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Let $A$ be the collection of all subsets of $\R$ that consist of exactly 5 points. Find the $\sigma$-algebra of sets generated by $A$.

#proof
It contain the empty set, $\R$, any sequence ,and the complement of any sequence. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Assume that $f\in L^1((0,1))$ is a non-negative real valued function satisfying  $\int_{[0,1]} f(x)\, dx = 1$. Show that
$$
\int_{[0,1]} \frac{1}{f(x)}\, dx \geq 1
$$

#proof
This follows from the obvious inequality
$$
\int_{[0,1]}\left(\frac{1}{\sqrt{f(x)}}-\sqrt{f(x)}\right)^2\,dx\geq 0
$$
::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Denote
$$
E = \left\{ x\in[0,1] : \text{there exist infinitely many } p,q\in\N \text{ such that } \left|x-\frac{p}{q}\right|\leq\frac{1}{q^3} \right\}.
$$
Show that $m(E)=0$.

#proof
Define
$$
E_{p,q}=\{ x\in[0,1] :   \left|x-\frac{p}{q}\right|\leq\frac{1}{q^3}  \}
$$
for pairs of integers $(p,q)$ and let $\succ$ be the  lexicographic order of $\mathbb Z\times\mathbb Z$. Then we can write
$$
E=\bigcap_{(r,s)\in\mathbb Z\times \mathbb Z}\bigcup_{(p,q)\succ (r,s)}E_{p,q}.
$$
Obviously, $
\mu(E_{p,q})\leq 2q^{-3}$. Thus
$$
\mu(\bigcup_{(p,q)\succ (r,s)}E_{p,q})\leq \sum_{(p,q)\succ (r,s)}\frac {2}{q^3}
$$
Note that for any $q$, there is at most one $p$ satisfies the inequality $|x-p/q|\leq q^{-3}$, we have 
$$
\sum_{(p,q)\succ (r,s)}\frac {2}{q^3}\leq \frac{2}{(s-1)^2}.
$$
As a result, we conclude that $m(E)=0$.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Assume that $\eta\in L^1(\R)$ is a non-negative function satisfying $\int_\R \eta\, dx=1$. Show that for any $f\in L^1(\R)$,
$$
\|f*\eta\|_{L^1(\R)} \leq \|f\|_{L^1(\R)}.
$$
Here
$$
(f*\eta)(x) = \int_\R f(x-y)\eta(y)\, dy.
$$

#proof
This is a simple application of the [Tonelli's theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fubini%27s_theorem#Tonelli's_theorem).
$$
\|f*\eta\|_{L^1(\R)} =\int_\R \left| \int_\R f(x-y)\eta(y)\, dy\right| dx\leq \int_\R   \int_\R |f(x-y)|\eta(y)\, dy  dx=\int_\R   \int_\R |f(x-y)|\eta(y)\, dx  dy=\|f\|_{L^1(\R)}\cdot \|\eta\|_{L^1(\R)}=\|f\|_{L^1(\R)}.
$$
::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $f:\R\to \R$ be continuous and periodic with period one. Prove that
$$
\lim_{n\to\infty} \int_0^1 f(nx) \cos^2(2\pi x)\, dx = \frac12 \int_0^1 f(x)\, dx.
$$

#proof
This is the [Riemann–Lebesgue lemma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Riemann–Lebesgue_lemma). A simple way to prove this problem in the context is as follows. Let 
$$
g(x)=f(x)-\int_0^1 f(x) dx.
$$
Then $g(x)$ is a periodic function with period $1$ and $\int_0^1 g(x) dx=0$. As a result, there is a periodic function $G(x)$ of period $1$ such that $G'(x) =g(x)$. Note that in this case, 
$$
\int_0^1 g(nx) \cos^2(2\pi x)\, dx = \frac12 \int_0^1 f(x)\, dx=\int_{S^1} g(nx)\cos^2(2\pi x)dx \to 0
=-\frac 1n\int_{S^1} (\cos^2(2\pi x))' G(nx) dx
$$
as $n\to\infty$. Thus
$$
\lim_{n\to\infty} \int_0^1 f(nx) \cos^2(2\pi x)\, dx=\int_0^1 f(x) dx\cdot\int_0^1\cos^2(2\pi x) dx=\frac 12 \int_0^1 f(x) dx.
$$
::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Let $x=0.n_1n_2\ldots$ be the decimal representation of $x\in[0,1]$. Compute with justification $\int_{[0,1]} f(x)\, dx$, where

(i) $f(x) = \max_{i\in\N} |n_i-n_{i+1}|$;

(ii) $\displaystyle f(x) = \max_{i\in\N} \sum_{k=i}^\infty \frac{n_k}{2^{k-i}}$.

#proof
(i). I claim that $f(x)=9$ a.e.. To see this, let 
$E_{i,k}=\{x\mid n_i=k\}$. If $f(x)\leq 8$, then 
$$
x\not\in (E_{2i-1,9}\cap E_{2i,0})\cup(E_{2i-1,0}\cap E_{2i,9})
$$
for any $i\geq 1$. Thus
$$
x\not\in \bigcup_{i=1}^\infty \left((E_{2i-1,9}\cap E_{2i,0})\cup(E_{2i-1,0}\cap E_{2i,9})\right).
$$
Since 
$$
\mu\left((E_{2i-1,9}\cap E_{2i,0})\cup(E_{2i-1,0}\cap E_{2i,9})\right)=\frac{2}{100}=\frac{1}{50},
$$
we have 
$$
\mu \left(((E_{2i-1,9}\cap E_{2i,0})\cup(E_{2i-1,0}\cap E_{2i,9}))^c\right)=\frac{49}{50}.
$$
As a result, we have 
$$
\mu \left(\bigcap_{i=1}^\infty((E_{2i-1,9}\cap E_{2i,0})\cup(E_{2i-1,0}\cap E_{2i,9}))^c\right)=0.
$$
This proves that $f(x)$ is almost everywhere equal to $9$, and hence $\int_0^1 f(x) dx=9.

(ii). We use a similar method here. We claim that $f(x)=18$ almost everywhere. To see it, let $N>0$ be a large number. Define
$$
F_i=E_{i,9}\cap E_{i+1,9}\cap\cdots\cap E_{i+N-1,9}.
$$
Then 
$$
\mu(F_i)=\left(\frac{10^N-1}{10^N}\right).
$$
As a result, 
$$
\mu\left(\bigcap_{k=0}^\infty F^c_{i+kN}\right)=0.
$$
This means, for almost all $x$, there is a sequence of decimal $9$ of length $N$. Thus
$$
f(x)\geq \sum_{k=0}^{N-1} \frac 9{2^k}=18-\frac 9{2^{N-1}}.
$$
Since $N$ is arbitrary, we get $g(x)\geq 18$ a.e. On the other hand, $f(x)\leq 18$ by definition. Thus $f(x)=18$ a.e., and hence $\int_0^1 f(x) dx =18$.
::