# 2015 Fall Real Analysis

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Let $E$ be a measurable subset of $[0,1]$. Assume that $f\in \mathcal C(\mathbb{R})$ is 1-periodic, i.e. $f(x+1)=f(x)$. Compute
$$
\lim_{n\to+\infty}\int_E f(nx) dx
$$
Justify your answer.

#proof
We shall prove that 
$$
\lim_{n\to+\infty}\int_E f(nx) dx=\mu(E)\int_0^1 f(t) dt.
$$
Let 
$$
h(x)=f(x)-\int_0^1 f(t) dt.
$$
Then $h(x)$ is also a periodic function. Let $H(x)$ be an anti-derivative of $h(x)$, say, 
$$
H(x)=\int_0^x h(t) dt.
$$
Then 
$$
H(x+1)=\int_0^{x+1} h(t) dt=H(x)+\int_x^{x+1} h(t) dt=H(x)+\int_0^1 h(t) dt=H(x).
$$
Thus anti-derivative of $h(x)$ is also periodic.
Since 
$$
\lim_{n\to+\infty}\int_E f(nx) dx=\lim_{n\to+\infty}\int_E h(nx) dx +\mu(E)\int_0^1 f(t) dt,
$$
we only need to prove that 
$$
\lim_{n\to+\infty}\int_E h(nx) dx=0
$$

For any $\eps>0$, let $g(x)$ be a smooth function such that 
$$
\int_0^1|1_E-g(x)| dx<\eps. 
$$
Then we have 
$$
\left|\lim_{n\to+\infty}\int_E h(nx) dx\right|\leq C\eps +
\left|\lim_{n\to+\infty}\int_0^1 g(x) h(nx) dx\right|
=C\eps +\lim_{n\to+\infty}\frac 1n\int_0^1|g'(x) H(nx)| dx= 0.
$$
::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Suppose $f\in L^1[0,1]$ and assume that there exists $C>0$ such that for all measurable subsets $E\subset[0,1]$, we have
$$
\int_E |f(x)| dx \leq C\mu(E)^{\frac12}
$$
Show that $f\in L^p[0,1]$ for $1\leq p<2$. Show that the statement fails for $p=2$ by giving a counterexample.

#proof
For any $t>0$, let
$$
E_t=\{x\mid |f(x)|>t\}.
$$
Then by assumption, we have 
$$
t\mu(E_t)\leq\int_{E_t} |f(x)| dx\leq C\mu(E)^{1/2}.
$$
Thus 
$$
\mu(E_t)\leq\frac{C^2}{t^2}.
$$
Let $1\leq p<2$. Then 
$$
\infty >C^2\int_1^\infty t^{p-3} dt\geq \int_1^\infty t^{p-1}\mu(E_t) dt=\int_0^\infty\int_{[0,1]} t^{p-1}1_{E_t} dxdt= \int_{[0,1]} \int_0^\infty t^{p-1}1_{E_t} dtdx=\frac 1p\int_{[0,1]}(|f(x)|^p-1) dx.
$$

On the other hand, the theorem is not true for $p=2$. Here is the example. Let $f(x)=x^{-1/2}$. Then $f\not\in L^2([0,1])$. On the other hand, let $E$ be any measurable set.  Let $a=\mu(E)/2$. Then
$$
\int_E|f(x)| dx\leq \int_0^a |f(x)|dx +\int_{E\cap [a,1]}|f(x)| dx\leq 2\sqrt a+\frac 1a\mu(E\cap[a,1])\leq C\mu(E)^{1/2}.
$$
::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Show that a function $f:\mathbb{R}^n\to\mathbb{R}^+$ is measurable if and only if $\{(x,y) : 0\leq y\leq f(x) \}$ is a measurable subset of $\mathbb{R}^{n+1}$.

#proof
See [Problem 2 of 2023 Winter Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2023-winter/).
::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Let $f\in L^1(\mathbb{R})$ and set
$$
f_h(x) = \frac1{2h}\int_{x-h}^{x+h} f(t) dt, \qquad h>0.
$$
Show that $f_h\in L^1(\mathbb{R})$ and $f_h\to f$ in $L^1(\mathbb{R})$ as $h\to 0$.

#proof
Without loss of generality, we assume that $f\geq 0$. Then using integration by parts, we have
$$
\int_\R f_h(x) dx=\int_\R \left(\frac1{2h}\int_{x-h}^{x+h} f(t) dt\right)dx
=\left.\frac{x}{2h}\int_{x-h}^{x+h} f(t) dt\right|_{-\infty}^\infty-\frac{1}{2h}\int_\R 
x(f(x+h)-f(x-h)) dx.
$$
Since $f\in L^1(\R)$, at infinity it is zero. For the second term of the above right, we have
$$
-\frac{1}{2h}\int_\R 
x(f(x+h)-f(x-h)) dx=-\frac{1}{2h}\int_\R 
xf(x+h) dx+\frac{1}{2h}\int_\R 
xf(x-h) dx=\int_\R f(x) dx.
$$
Thus we have 
$\|f_h\|_{L^1}=\|f\|_{L^1}$. By [Lebesgue differentiation theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lebesgue_differentiation_theorem), $f_h(x)\to f(x)$ almost everywhere. Thus by [Problem 1 of 2022 Fall Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2022-fall/), we get $f_h\to f$ in $L^1(\R)$.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $(X,\mathcal{A},\mu)$ be a measure space and let $f_k:X\to \mathbb{R}$ be a sequence of measurable functions satisfying the following:
$$
\int_X |f_k|^2 d\mu \leq 2015 \quad \text{for all } k
$$
and
$$
\int_X f_jf_k d\mu = 0 \quad \text{for all } j\neq k.
$$
Prove that for all $\beta>3/2$,
$$
\lim_{n\to\infty} \frac1{n^\beta}\sum_{k=1}^{n^2} f_k(x)=0 \quad \text{for a.e. }x\in X
$$

#proof
Let
$$
g_n(x)=\frac1{n^\beta}\sum_{k=1}^{n^2} f_k(x)
$$
for all $n\geq 1$.
Then 
$$
\int_X g_n^2 d\mu=\frac{1}{n^{2\beta}}\sum_{k=1}^{n^2}\sum_{l=1}^{n^2}\int_X f_k(x) f_l(x)d\mu=\frac{2015}{n^{2\beta-2}}.
$$
Thus 
$$
\int_X\left(\sum_{n=1}^\infty  g_n^2(x)\right)d\mu\leq \sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{2015}{n^{2\beta-2}}<\infty
$$
since $\beta>3/2$. Thus $\sum g_n^2$ is almost everywhere finite, and as a result, $g_n(x)\to 0$ a.e..
::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Let $A,B\subset \mathbb{R}^n$ be Lebesgue measurable sets and assume that for every $x\in\mathbb{Q}^n$, there exists a null set $N_x$ such that
$$
A+x \subset B\cup N_x
$$
Here $A+x = \{a+x : a\in A\}$. Show that if $A$ is not a null set, then the complement of $B$ in $\mathbb{R}^n$ is a null set.

#proof
By the [Lebesgue's density theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lebesgue%27s_density_theorem), if $\mu(A)
\neq 0$, then there is a point $p\in X$ which is dense. That is, for any $\eps>0$, there is a $\delta>0$ such that $\mu(B_p(\delta)\cap A)>(1-\eps) \mu(B_p(\delta))$. Thus  by assumption, for any $q\in \R^n$, we have
$\mu(B_q(\delta)\cap B)\geq (1-\eps) \mu(B_q(\delta))$. Thus the complement of $B$ doesn't have any dense set. Then by the Lebesgue's density theorem again, the complement of $B$ is a null set. 
::