# 2016 Fall Real Analysis

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Let $(X,\mathcal{A},\mu)$ be a $\sigma$-finite measure space, and let $\mathcal{A}_0$ be a sub-$\sigma$-algebra of $\mathcal{A}$. Given a nonnegative $\mathcal{A}$-measurable function $f$ on $X$, show that there is a nonnegative $\mathcal{A}_0$-measurable function $f_0$ on $X$, such that 
$$
\int_X fg\, d\mu = \int_X f_0g\, d\mu
$$
for every nonnegative $\mathcal{A}_0$-measurable function $g$. In what sense is $f_0$ unique?

#proof
Let $\nu$ be a measure on $\mathcal{A}_0 $ defined by
$$
\nu(E) = \int_E f d\mu 
$$
for any $E \in \mathcal{A}_0$. Observe that $\nu(E)$ is $\sigma$-finite and $\nu \ll \mu$. So, by the Radon-Nikodym theorem, there exists an $\mathcal{A}_0$-measurable function $f_0 = \frac{d\nu}{d\mu} \geq 0$
such that 
$$
\int_E f d\mu = \int_E f_0 d\mu 
$$
for any $E\in \mathcal{A}_0$.

When $g \geq 0$ is $\mathcal{A}$-measurable, we can find an increasing sequence of $\mathcal{A}_0$-simple functions $\Phi_n$ converges to $g$ pointwise. So we have $f\Phi_n$ monotonically converging to $fg$ and $f_0\Phi_n$ monotonically converging to $f_0g$.
Then, by the [Monotone convergence theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monotone_convergence_theorem), we have
$$
\int_X fg d\mu = \lim_{n\to\infty} \int_X f \Phi_n d\mu = \lim_{n\to\infty} \int_X f_0 \Phi_n d\mu = \int_X f_0g d\mu,
$$
as desired. 

By the Radon-Nikodym construction, $f_0$ is unique up to $\mu|_{\mathcal{A}_0}$.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Let $(X,\mathcal{A},\mu)$ be a measure space. Suppose there exists an extended real valued $\mathcal{A}$-measurable function $f$ on $X$ such that $f>0$ $\mu$-a.e. and $f$ is $\mu$-integrable. Prove that $(X,\mathcal{A},\mu)$ is a $\sigma$-finite measure space.

#proof
See [Problem 3 of 2021 Spring Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2021-spring/).
::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Let $0\leq f\in L^1(\mathbb{R})$. Set $f_1=f$ and $f_{n+1}=f*f_n$ for $n=1,2,3,\cdots$.

(i) Show that the series $\sum_{n=1}^\infty f_n$ converges in $L^1(\mathbb{R})$ if and only if
$$
\int_\mathbb{R} f\, dx < 1.\tag{1}
$$

(ii) Suppose that $f(x)=0$ for $x<0$ and that $f$ is bounded for $x<A$ for some $A>0$. Show that $\sum_{n=1}^\infty f_n(x)$ converges uniformly for $x<A$.

#proof
To show that the series converges in $L^1(\mathbb{R})$, we  need to show that $\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} \| f_n \|_{L^1} < \infty$. Observing that 
$$
    \|f_{n+1}\|_{L^1(\R)} = \|\int f * f_n \|_{L^1(\R)} 
    =  \|f\|_{L^1(\R)} \cdot\|f_n\|_{L^1(\R)},
   $$
   we have
   $$
\|f_n\|_{L^1(\R)}= \|f\|_{L^1(\R)}^n.
$$
Thus
$\sum_{n=1}^\infty f_n$ is convergent if and only if (1) is valid. 




Suppose that $f(x)\leq M$ for $0<x<A$. Let $x \in (0,A)$. Since $f(x)=0$ for $x<0$,  we have 
$$
        f_{n+1}(x) = \int_{\mathbb{R}} f(t)f_n(x-t) dt 
        = \int_0^x f(t)f_n(x-t)dt 
        \leq M\int_0^x f_n(t)dt.
$$
We claim that 
$$
f_{n+1}(x) \leq \frac{M^{n+1}x^n}{n!}
$$
for all nonnegative integer. If $n=0$, it follows from assumption. If the above inequality if true for $n-1$, then
$$
f_{n+1}(x) \leq M\int_0^x f_n(t) dt\leq M \int_0^x \frac{M^{n}t^{n-1}}{(n-1)!}dt= \frac{M^{n+1}x^n}{n!}.
$$
Since 
$$
\sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{M^{n+1}x^n}{n!}
$$
is convergent for any $x$, the conclusion of the problem follows. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Construct a nonnegative measurable function $f$ on $[0,1]$ such that

(i) $f\in L^m([0,1])$ for any $m>0$;

(ii) ${\rm ess\,sup}_I f = +\infty$ for any interval $I\subset [0,1]$.

#proof
Let $\{q_k\}$ be a sequence of rational numbers. Define
$$
I_k=(q_k-e^{-k}, q_k+e^{-k})
$$
for all $k\geq 1$. Let 
$$
x\not\in U=\bigcup_{k=1}^\infty I_k.
$$
Then define $f(x)=0$; if $x\in I_k$, then define $f(x)=k$ -- if $x$ belows to several of these $I_k$'s, define $f(x)$ to be the maximal  of such $k$'s.


We make a remark of the function $f$. Let
$$
E=\bigcap_{k=1}^\infty\bigcup_{\ell>k} I_\ell.
$$
Then for any $k>1$, we have
$$
\mu(E)\leq \mu \left(\bigcup_{\ell>k} I_\ell\right)\leq 2\sum_{\ell>k}e^{-\ell}\to 0
$$
as $k\to\infty$. As a result, we have $\mu(E)=0$. Since $x\in E$ means that $x$ belongs to infinitely many $I_\ell$'s, we conclude that for almost all $x$, $x$  belongs to at most finitely many intervals $I_\ell$. Thus $f(x)$ is almost everywhere finite. 

Thus for almost all $x$, it belong to a unique $I_\ell$ such that $\ell$ is maximized. Let 
$$
\tilde I_\ell=\{x\in U\mid  x\in  I_\ell, \ell {\rm \,\,is\,\,maximized}\}=I_\ell\backslash \bigcup_{k<\ell} I_k.
$$
Then
$$
U=\bigcup_{\ell=1}^\infty \tilde I_\ell
$$
Since $f(x)=\ell$ on $\tilde I_\ell$, we have
$$
\int_0^1 f(x)^m dx\leq2\sum_{k=1}^\infty n^m e^{-n}<\infty
$$
is integrable for all $m$. 

On the other hand, for any interval $I\subset [0,1]$, then there is a subsequence $k_j\to\infty$ such that $k_j\in I$. 
Since $f(k_j)\geq k_j$, we have
  ${\rm ess\,sup}_I f = +\infty$.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Assume that $f$ is a nonnegative measurable function on $[0,1]$ and
$$
\int_{[0,1]} f\, dx = \int_{[0,1]} f^2\, dx = \int_{[0,1]} f^3\, dx.
$$
Show that $f(1-f)=0$ a.e..

#proof
We have
$$
\int_{[0,1]} f(1-f)^2 dx.=\int_{[0,1]} f dx - 2\int_{[0,1]} f^2 dx + \int_{[0,1]} f^3 dx.
$$
By our assumption, the above right is  equal to 0. So we have  $f(1-f)^2$ a.e., which implies that $f(1-f) = 0$ a.e. on $[0,1]$.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Let $(f_n)$ be a sequence of measurable functions on $\mathbb{R}^d$ such that $|f_n(x)|\leq 1$ for all $x$ and all $n$ and assume that
$$
f_n\to f \text{ a.e. as }n\to\infty.
$$
Show that $g*f_n\to g*f$ uniformly on each compact set in $\mathbb{R}^d$, if $g\in L^1(\mathbb{R}^d)$.

#proof
Let $A \in \mathbb{R}^d$ be compact. 
Let $\eps>0$ be any positive number. Then there exists a set $E$ such that 
$$
m(E)<\eps
$$
and on $E^c$, $f_n\to f$ uniformly. Without loss of generality, we assume that 
$$
\int_E|g(t)| dt\leq \eps_1
$$
for some small $\eps_1$ depending on $\eps$, and $\eps_1\to 0$ as $\eps\to 0$. 
Then for any $x\in A$, we have 
$$
|g*f_n-g*f|(x) \leq \int_E g(x-t) (f_n(t)-f(t)) dt+
\int_{E^c} g(x-t) (f_n(t)-f(t)) dt.
$$
We have 
$$
\int_E g(x-t) (f_n(t)-f(t)) dt\leq 2 \int_E g(x-t)dt\leq 2\eps_1,
$$
and we have
$$
\int_{E^c} g(x-t) (f_n(t)-f(t)) dt\leq \|f_n-f\|_{L^\infty(A)}\cdot \|g\|_{L^1{(A)}}.
$$
The theorem follows by the above two inequalities.
::