# 2017 Fall Real Analysis

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Assume $f\in L^1(\mathbb{R},m)$ where $m$ is the Lebesgue measure. Let $E_n = \{ x : f(x)>n^2 \}$. Prove or disprove:

(a) $m(E_n)\to 0$ as $n\to\infty$;

(b) $\int_{E_n\cup [n,2n]} f\, dm\to 0$ as $n\to\infty$;

(c) There is a set $B$ of Lebesgue measure 0 such that $f(x)\to0$ as $x\to \infty$ for $x\notin B$.

#proof
(a) follows from
$$
n^2\,m(E_n)\leq \int_{E_n} fdm\leq \int_\R fdm<\infty.
$$

(b) Since $m(E_n)\to 0$ as $n\to\infty$, we must have 
$$
\int_{E_n} fdm\to 0
$$
as $n\to\infty$. On the other hand, we have 
$$
\sum_{k=1}^\infty \int_k^{k+1} fdm=\int_\R fdm<\infty.
$$
Thus 
$$
\int_{[n,2n]}f dm\leq \int_{[n,\infty]}f dm\to 0,
$$
as $n\to\infty$. Thus
(b) is also true. 

(c) is not true. Let 
$$
f(x)=\sum_{n=1}^\infty 1_{[n,n+1/n^2]}.
$$
Then $f\in L^1(\R,m)$, but there is no such zero measure set $B$.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Let $f$ be a Lebesgue measurable extended real valued function on $[0,1]$. Let $p\in[1,\infty)$ and $r>0$, and suppose we have $\int_0^1 x^{-r}|f(x)|^p \, dx < \infty$. Prove that
$$
\lim_{t\downarrow 0} t^{-\left( 1 + \frac{r-1}p\right)} \int_0^t f(x) \, dx = 0.
$$

#proof
We use [Hölder's inequality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hölder%27s_inequality#Notable_special_cases) to get
$$
\left|\int_0^t f(x) \, dx \right|\leq \left|\int_0^t x^{-\frac rp}|f(x)| \, x^{\frac rp} \, dx \right|
\leq
\left(\int_0^t x^{-r}|f(x)|^p dx\right)^{1/p}\cdot \left(\int_0^t x^{\frac{r}{p-1}} dx\right)^{\frac{p-1}{p}}
\leq C t^{\left( 1 + \frac{r-1}p\right)}\left(\int_0^t x^{-r}|f(x)|^p dx\right)^{1/p}.
$$
The theorem follows. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Consider the Lebesgue measure in $\mathbb{R}^2$. Suppose $E\subset [0,1]^2$ is measurable. Let
$$
E_x = \{ y\in[0,1] : (x,y)\in E \} \text{ and } E_y = \{ x\in[0,1] : (x,y)\in E \}.
$$
Show that if $\mu_L(E_x)=0$ for $\mu_L$-a.e. $x\in [0,\frac12]$, then
$$
\mu_L(\{ y\in[0,1] : \mu_L(E_y) = 1 \}) \leq \frac12.
$$

#proof
See [Problem 4 of 2015 Spring Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2015-spring).
::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Show that for a.e. $x\in[0,1]$ and for every $\gamma>2$
$$
\sum_{n=1}^\infty \sum_{k=1}^n \frac1{n^\gamma}\frac1{\sqrt{|x-\frac{k}{2^n}|}} < +\infty.
$$

#proof
We observe that 
$$
\int_0^1\frac1{\sqrt{|x-\frac{k}{2^n}|}} dx=\int_0^{k/2^n}\frac1{\sqrt{|x-\frac{k}{2^n}|}} dx
+\int_{k/2^n}^1\frac1{\sqrt{|x-\frac{k}{2^n}|}} dx=2\sqrt{\frac{k}{2^n}}+2\sqrt{1-\frac{k}{2^n}}\leq 4.
$$
Thus 
$$
\int_0^1 \left(\sum_{n=1}^\infty \sum_{k=1}^n \frac1{n^\gamma}\frac1{\sqrt{|x-\frac{k}{2^n}|}}\right )dx
\leq \sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{4n}{n^\gamma}<\infty.
$$
The theorem follows. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $\mu$ be a measure on $\mathbb{R}$ that is absolutely continuous with respect to the Lebesgue measure $m$ and with Radon-Nikodym derivative equal to $e^{-x}$. Assume that $f_n$ are $\mu$-measurable functions with $\int_\mathbb{R} |f_n|\, d\mu \leq \frac1{n^\gamma}$ for all $n\in\mathbb{N}$. Prove or disprove that for Lebesgue a.e. $x\in[0,1]$,
$$
\lim_{n\to+\infty} f_n(x) = 0
$$
if

(a) $\gamma=1$;

(b) $\gamma=2$.

#proof
That we use a measure $e^{-x} dx$ and $\R$ being non-compcact is irrelevant. This problem is similar to [Problem 4 of 2023 Winter Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2023-winter),
[Problem 2 of 2014 Spring Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2014-spring).
::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Let $(X,\mathcal{A},\mu)$ be a measure space and $f_n\in L^1(X,\mathcal{A},\mu)$. If $f_n\to f$ $\mu$-a.e., show that there exist sets $H,E_k\in\mathcal{A}$ such that $X = H\cup (\bigcup_{k=1}^\infty E_k)$, $\mu(H)=0$ and $f_n\to f$ uniformly on each $E_k$.

#proof
This is essentially the [Egorov's theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Egorov%27s_theorem). For each $k\geq 1$, we let $E_k$ be a set such that $f_n\to f$ uniformly but $\mu(E_k^c)<1/k$. Let 
$$
H=\bigcap_{k=1}^\infty E_k^c.
$$
Then $\mu(H)=0$, and we have 
$$
X = H\cup (\bigcup_{k=1}^\infty E_k).
$$
::