# 2019 Fall Real Analysis

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Let $\Omega\subset \mathbb{R}^n$ be a compact set. Suppose we are taking the Lebesgue measure. Solve 3 of the following problems.

(a). Prove or disprove that necessarily $L^4(\Omega)\subset L^3(\Omega)$;

(b). Prove or disprove that necessarily $L^3(\Omega)\subset L^4(\Omega)$;

(c). Prove or disprove that necessarily $L^4(\mathbb{R}^n)\subset L^3(\mathbb{R}^n)$;

(d). Prove or disprove that necessarily $L^3(\mathbb{R}^n)\subset L^4(\mathbb{R}^n)$.

#proof
We assume that $\Omega$ is a bounded domain that contains an interior point $p\in\Omega$.

(a). is true. Let $f\in L^4(\Omega)$ and assume that 
$$
\int_\Omega f^4<C<\infty.
$$
Then by [Hölder's inequality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hölder%27s_inequality), we have
$$
\int_\Omega f^3=\int_\Omega 1\cdot f^3\leq \left(\int_\Omega 1^{4}\right)^{1/4}\cdot
\left(\int_\Omega (f^{3})^{4/3}\right)^{3/4}\leq C^{3/4}\cdot ({\rm Vol}(\Omega))^{1/4}<\infty.
$$

(b). is not true. We take 
$$
f(x)=\frac{1}{\|x-p\|^s},
$$
where $n/4<s<n/3$.

Since $p$ is an interior point of $\Omega$, there exists an $\eps>0$ such that $B_p(\eps)\subset \Omega$. 
We shall prove that $f\in L^3(\Omega)$ but $f\not\in L^4(\Omega)$. First, we have
$$
\int_\Omega \frac{1}{\|x-p\|^{4s}}\geq \int_{B_p(\eps)}\frac{1}{\|x-p\|^{4s}}=\int_0^1
\frac{1}{t^{4s}}w_{n-1} t^{n-1} dt=\infty,
$$
where $w_{n-1}$ is the area of the unit sphere in $\R^n$. On the other hand, 
$$
\int_\Omega \frac{1}{\|x-p\|^{3s}}=\int_{B_p(\eps)}\frac{1}{\|x-p\|^{3s}}+\int_{\Omega \backslash B_p(\eps)}\frac{1}{\|x-p\|^{3s}}.
$$
The second term in the above right is finite  because 
$$
\int_{\Omega \backslash B_p(\eps)}\frac{1}{\|x-p\|^{3s}}\leq \int_{\Omega \backslash B_p(\eps)}\frac{1}{\eps^{3s}}\leq \frac{1}{\eps^{3s}}{\rm Vol}(\Omega).
$$
For the first term, we have
$$
\int_{B_p(\eps)}\frac{1}{\|x-p\|^{3s}}=\int_0^1
\frac{1}{t^{3s}}w_{n-1} t^{n-1} dt<\infty.
$$
Thus $f(x)\in L^3(\Omega)$.

Both (c). (d). are not true. See [Problem 5 of 2023 Winter Real Analysis](/posts/real-analysis/2023-winter/) for the proof. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Let $E_n$ be a sequence of measurable set in $(X,\mu)$ and
$$
A = \{ x\in X : x\in E_n \text{ for infinitely many } n \}
$$

(a) Assume $\mu(E_n)\to 0$ as $n\to\infty$. Prove or disprove that necessarily $\mu(A)=0$.

(b) Suppose there exists an infinite subsequence $\{E_{n_i}\}$ such that $\mu(E_{n_i})>\frac12$. Prove or disprove that necessarily $\mu(A)>0$. Discuss separately the cases of finite and infinite $\mu$.

#proof
We can write
$$
A=\bigcap_{j=1}^\infty\bigcup_{k\geq j} E_k.
$$
We prove (b). first. Assume that 
$$
F_j=\bigcup_{k\geq j} E_k.
$$
Then 
$$
1_{F_j}\to 1_A
$$
almost everywhere. Moreover, $1-1_{F_j}$ is a monotonicity increasing sequence of functions. Assume that $\mu$ is [finite]{.text-red-500}, then by the [Monotone Convergence Theorem](https://www.math3ma.com/blog/monotone-convergence-theorem), we must have 
$$
\lim_{j\to\infty} \mu(F_j)=\mu(X)-\lim_{j\to\infty} \int_X (1-1_{F_j})d\mu=\mu(X)-\int_X(1- 1_A)d\mu=\mu(A). 
$$
Since $\mu(E_{k})>\frac12$ for infinitely many $k$'s, we have 
$$
\mu(A)=\lim_{j\to\infty} \mu(F_j)\geq \frac 12>0.
$$

If $\mu$ is an infinite measure, then either $\mu(A)=0$ or positive can happen. For example, if $E_j=[j,j+1)$. Then $A=\emptyset$.

Now we treat (a)., which is very similar to [Problem 3 of 2022 Spring Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2022-spring/). Assume that
$$
\sum_{j=1}^\infty\mu(E_j)<\infty.
$$
Then 
$$
\mu(A)\leq \sum_{k\geq j}\mu(E_k)
$$
for any $j\gg 0$. Thus $\mu(A)=0$.

However, if 
$$
\sum_{j=1}^\infty\mu(E_j)=\infty.
$$
Then [if]{.text-red-500} we  can find a subsequence $n_j$ of $\mathbb N$ such that 
$$
\mu\left(\bigcup_{i=n_j+1}^{n_{j+1}}E_i\right)>\frac 12,
$$
and if we assume that $\mu$ is finite, then by (b)., it is possible that $\mu(A)>0$ but otherwise $A$ could have been of zero measure. So it is inconclusive. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Let $\mu$ be a finite measure on $\mathbb{R}$ and define
$$
f(x) = \int_\mathbb{R} \frac{\ln|x-t|}{|x-t|^{1/2}}\, d\mu(t) \qquad x\in\mathbb{R}.
$$
Prove that $f(x)$ is finite $\lambda$-a.e. for $x\in\mathbb{R}$. Here $\lambda$ denotes the Lebesgue measure on $\mathbb{R}$.

#proof
By [Fubini-Tonelli theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fubini%27s_theorem#Tonelli's_theorem), for any $b>a>0$, we know that 
$$
\int_a^b |f(x)|\, dx=\int_a^b\int_\mathbb{R} \frac{|\ln|x-t||}{|x-t|^{1/2}}\, d\mu(t)\,dx
=\int_\R\int_a^b \frac{|\ln|x-t||}{|x-t|^{1/2}}\, dx\, d\mu(t).
$$
For any $|x|>1$, we have $|\ln |x||\leq C|x|^{1/4}$. Thus
$$
\int_a^b \frac{|\ln|x-t||}{|x-t|^{1/2}}\, dx=\int_{a+t}^{b+{t}}\frac{|\ln|x ||}{|x |^{1/2}}dx\leq \int_{0}^{1}\frac{|\ln|x ||}{|x |^{1/2}}dx+\int_{a+t}^{b+t}\frac{C}{|x|^{1/4}}dx<C
$$
is independent to $t$. Therefore we have 
$$
\int_a^b |f(x)|\, dx\leq \int_\R C d\mu(t)=C\mu(\R)<\infty.
$$
Hence $f(x)$ is Lebesgue integrable on any interval $[a,b]$, and therefore the function  is almost everywhere finite. 

$\quad$

#remark

In the Fubini's Theorem, we need to assume that the double integrability. In the 
Tonelli's Theorem, the nonnegativity of the function is used to replace the double integrability. Nevertheless, we have the following result.

**Theorem.** Let $f(x,y)$ be a nonnegative function on $\R\times \R$. Assume that the iterated integral is finite
$$
\int_\R\int_\R f(x,y) dxdy<\infty.
$$
Then so is the double integral 
$$
\iint_{\R\times\R}  f(x,y) dxdy<\infty.
$$

We can use the Levi's Theorem to prove it. For any $N\gg 0$, let $1_N$ be the characteristic function of the interval $[-N,N]$ over $\R$. We consider the functions
$$
1_N(x)1_N(y)\max (N, f(x,y))
$$
for any $N$. Since the functions are bounded with compact support for any $N$, we can use Fubini's Theorem to conclude that 
$$
\iint_{\R\times\R}  1_N(x)1_N(y)\max (N, f(x,y))dxdy=
\int_\R\int_\R 1_N(x)1_N(y)\max (N, f(x,y))dxdy\leq \int_\R\int_R f(x,y) dxdy<\infty.
$$
Since the above inequality is true for any $N$, by the Levi's Theorem, we conclude the double integrability of the function.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Let $f$ be an absolutely continuous function on $\mathbb{R}$ such that $f\in L^1(\mathbb{R})$. Suppose that
$$
\lim_{t\to 0^+} \int_\mathbb{R} \left| \frac{f(x+t)-f(x)}{t}\right|\, dx = 0.
$$
Prove that $f\equiv 0$.

#proof
Let $t_i\to 0$ be a sequence of real numbers. Then by the [Fatou's lemma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fatou%27s_lemma), we have 
$$
\int_\R|f'(x)| dx=\int_\R \lim_{i\to\infty}\left| \frac{f(x+t_i)-f(x)}{t_i}\right|dx
\leq \liminf_{i\to\infty}\int_\R \left| \frac{f(x+t_i)-f(x)}{t_i}\right|dx=0.
$$
Thus $f(x)$ is a constant and since $f\in L^1(\R)$, it must be identically zero.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $(X,\mu)$ be a measure space and suppose that $f_n:X\to \mathbb{R}$ is a sequence of measurable functions such that 
$$
\sup_n \int_X |f_n|^2\, d\mu < +\infty
$$
and $\lim_{n\to\infty} \int_X (f_n\cdot g)\, d\mu$ exists and is finite for any $g\in L^2(X,\mu)$.

(a). Prove that there exists $f\in L^2(X,\mu)$ such that
$$
\lim_{n\to\infty} \int_X (f_n\cdot g)\, d\mu = \int_X (f\cdot g)\, d\mu, \qquad \forall g\in L^2(X,\mu).
$$

(b). Prove that, for the $f$ in part (a), we have
$$
\int_X |f|^2\, d\mu \leq \liminf_{n\to\infty} \int_X  |f_n|^2\, d\mu.
$$

#proof
Define a functional $\ell$ on $L^2(X,\mu)$ such that 
$$
\ell(g)=\lim_{n\to\infty}\int_X(f_n\cdot g)d\mu.
$$
By assumption, $\ell$ is a linear functional. Thus by the [Riesz representation theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Riesz_representation_theorem), there is a function $f\in L^2(X,\mu)$ such that 
$$
\ell(g)= \int_X(f\cdot g)d\mu
$$
for all $g\in L^2(X,\mu)$. This proves (a)..

Taking $g=f$, we shall get 
$$
\int_X |f|^2d\mu=\ell(f)=\lim_{n\to\infty}\int_X (f\cdot f_n)d\mu\leq \liminf_{n\to\infty}
\sqrt{\int_X |f|^2d\mu}\,\cdot \sqrt{\int_X |f_n|^2d\mu}
=\sqrt{\int_X |f|^2d\mu}\,\cdot \liminf_{n\to\infty}
\sqrt{\int_X |f_n|^2d\mu}.
$$
This proves (b)..
::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
(a) Suppose $f\in L^2(\mathbb{R})$. Show that
$$
\sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{f(x+n)}{n^{3/4}} < \infty, \quad \text{for a.e. } x\in\mathbb{R}.
$$

(b) Give an example of $f\in L^4(\mathbb{R})$ such that
$$
\sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{f(x+n)}{n^{3/4}} = \infty, \quad \forall x\in\mathbb{R}.
$$

#proof
Without loss of generality, we assume that $f$ is nonnegative. 

(a). We consider 
$$
\begin{aligned}
&\int_0^1\sum_{n=1}^\infty\frac{f(x+n)}{n^{3/4}}\, dx=\sum_{n=1}^\infty\frac{1}{n^{3/4}}
\int_0^1 f(x+n) dx=\sum_{n=1}^\infty\frac{1}{n^{3/4}}
\int_n^{n+1} f(x) dx\\[1ex]
&\leq\sum_{k=0}^\infty\sum_{2^k\leq n<2^{k+1}}\frac{1}{n^{3/4}}
\int_n^{n+1} f(x) dx\leq \sum_{k=0}^\infty\frac{1}{2^{\frac 34 k}}\int_{2^k}^{2^{k+1}} f(t) dt.
\end{aligned}
$$
Using Cauchy's inequality, we have 
$$
\int_{2^k}^{2^{k+1}} f(t) dt\leq \sqrt{\int_{2^k}^{2^{k+1}} f(t)^2 dt}\cdot
\sqrt{\int_{2^k}^{2^{k+1}} 1dt}\leq 2^{k/2} \|f\|_{L^2}.
$$
Therefore we have 
$$
\int_0^1\sum_{n=1}^\infty\frac{f(x+n)}{n^{3/4}} dx\leq \sum_{k=0}^\infty\frac{1}{2^{\frac 34 k}} 2^{\frac k2}\|f\|_{L^2}=\|f\|_{L^2}\,\sum_{k=0}^\infty 2^{-\frac 14 k}<\infty.
$$

(b). Let $\{a_n\}$ be a sequence of nonnegative real numbers. Define $f: [0,\infty)\to\R$ to be $f(x)=a_{[x]}$, where $[x]$
is the integer part of $x$. Let
$$
a_n=\frac{1}{\sqrt[4]{n}\,\log n}.
$$
Then
$$
\sum_{n=1}^\infty a_n^4=\sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{1}{n(\log n)^4}\sim\int_2^\infty \frac{1}{x(\log x)^4}dx=\frac{1}{3(\log 2)^3}<\infty.
$$
On the other hand
$$
\sum_{n=1}^\infty\frac{a_n}{n^{3/4}}=\sum_{n=2}^\infty \frac{1}{n\log n}\sim \int_2^\infty\frac{1}{x\log x} dx=\infty.\tag{1}
$$
It is thus easy to verify that $f\in L^4(\R)$. 

Let $m=[x]$. Then by (1), we know that 
$$
\sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{f(x+n)}{n^{3/4}} =\sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{a_{n+m}}{n^{3/4}} \sim
\sum_{n=1}^\infty\frac{a_n}{n^{3/4}}=\infty.
$$
::