# 2020 Fall Real Analysis

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
For $m\geq 1$, denote
$$
\{ q_m\}_{m\geq 1}
$$
as the set of rational numbers in $[0,1]$. Denote
$$
f_m(x) = |x-q_m|^{-\frac34} \quad \text{for } x\in [0,1].
$$
Prove that there exists a sequence of positive numbers $\{a_m\}_{m\geq 1}$ such that
$$
\sum_{m=1}^\infty a_mf_m(x) \quad \text{converges for a.e. } x\in[0,1].
$$

#proof
This problem is very similar to 

We estimate
$$
\int_0^1|x-q_m|^{-\frac34}dx=\int_0^{q_m}|x-q_m|^{-\frac34}dx+\int_{q_m}^1|x-q_m|^{-\frac34}dx=
4q_m^{1/4}+4(1-q_m)^{1/4}\leq 8.
$$
Taking $a_m=1/m^2$, we get 
$$
\int_0^1\left|\sum_{m=1}^\infty a_mf_m(x)\right|dx\leq\sum_{m=1}^\infty\frac{8}{m^2}<\infty.
$$
Thus the function is almost everywhere finite. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
$f_n$ is a sequence of measurable functions on $[0,1]$. Prove that
$$
\lim_{n\to+\infty} \int_{[0,1]} \frac{f_n}{1+|f_n|}\, dx = 0\tag{1}
$$
if and only if $f_n$ converges to 0 in measure.

#proof
I don't think the problem is correct. For example, if $f_n(x)=1$ for $x<1/2$ and $f_n(x)=-1$ for $x\geq 1/2$, then $f_n$ doesn't converge to zero in measure, but (1) is valid. 

We now assume that $f_n\geq 0$. For any $\eps>0$, let
$$
E_{n,\eps}=\{x\mid f_n(x)>\eps\}.
$$
If $\mu(E_{n,\eps})\to 0$ as $n\to\infty$, then
$$
\int_{[0,1]} \frac{f_n}{1+|f_n|}\, dx=\int_{E_{n,\eps}}\frac{f_n}{1+|f_n|}\, dx+  \int_{E^c_{n,\eps}}\frac{f_n}{1+|f_n|}\, dx\leq \mu(E_{n,\eps})+\frac{\eps}{1+\eps}.
$$
This proves (1). On the other hand, if (1) is valid, then 
$$
\mu(E_{n,\eps})\leq \int_{E_{n,\eps}}\frac{f_n}{1+|f_n|}\, dx\leq \int_{[0,1]} \frac{f_n}{1+|f_n|}\, dx\to 0.
$$
we proved that $f_n$ is convergent to $0$ in measure. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Let $(X,\mathcal{M},\mu)$ be a measure space. Let $g$ be a real-valued $\mathcal{M}$-measurable function on $X$. Suppose $fg$ is $\mu$-integrable on $X$ for every $\mu$-integrable real-valued $\mathcal{M}$-measurable function $f$ on $X$. Show that $\|g\|_\infty<\infty$.

#proof
Without loss of generality, we assume that $g\geq 0$ and $\mu(X)<\infty$. For any $k\geq 1$, let
$$
E_k=\{ x\mid g(x)>k\}.
$$
Assume that $\|g\|_\infty=\infty$. Then for any $k\geq 1$, we have $\mu(E_k)>0$.
Let $k_j$ be a subsequence of $\N$ such that 
$$
\mu(E_{k_1})>\mu(E_{k_2})>\cdots > \mu(E_{k_j})>\cdots.
$$
Define a sequence of real numbers $\{a_k\}$ by  
$$
a_{j}= \frac{1}{j^2(\mu(E_{k_{j-1}})-\mu(E_{k_j}))},\quad j\geq 1.
$$
Define $f(x)$ by $f(x)=a_j$ if $x\in E_{k_{j-1}}\backslash E_{k_j}$. Then 
$$
\int_X f(x) d\mu=\sum_{j=1}^\infty a_j(\mu(E_{k_{j-1}})-\mu(E_{k_j}))\leq \sum_{j=1}^\infty\frac{1}{j^2}<\infty.
$$
On the other hand, using the same method, we get
$$
\int_X fgd\mu\geq \sum_{j=1}^\infty k_{j-1}a_j(\mu(E_{k_{j-1}})-\mu(E_{k_j}))\geq 
\sum_{j=1}^\infty (j-1)a_j(\mu(E_{k_{j-1}})-\mu(E_{k_j}))=\infty.
$$
This is a contradiction. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Let $(X,\mathcal{A},\mu)$ be a measure space. Consider an $\mathcal{A}$-measurable function $f$ on $X$ such that $\|f\|_p<\infty$ for some $p\in(0,\infty)$. Show that 
$$
\lim_{N\to\infty} N^p\mu\{|f|\geq N\} = 0.
$$

#proof
By the inequality
$$
N^p\mu\{|f|\geq N\}\leq\int_{\{|f|\geq N\}}|f|^p d\mu=\int_X |f|^p \,1_{\{|f|\geq N\}}d\mu\leq\int_X |f|^p\,d\mu.
$$
From the above inequality, we know that  $\mu\{|f|\geq N\}\to 0$ as $N\to\infty$.
By the [Dominated convergence theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominated_convergence_theorem),
we have 
$$
\lim_{N\to\infty} \int_X |f|^p \,1_{\{|f|\geq N\}}d\mu=0.
$$
This completes the proof.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
A metric $d$ on a space $X$ is called an *ultrametric* if the triangle inequality is replaced by the following stronger property. For all $x,y,z\in X$:
$$
d(x,z)\leq \max(d(x,y),d(y,z))
$$
Prove:

(1). If $B$ is an open ball in $X$, then any point in $B$ is a center of $B$. (This means that for all $x\in B$, $B=B(x,r)$ for some $r$.)

(2). Every open ball in $X$ is both open and closed.

#proof
(1).  Let $y\in B=B_x(r)=\{z\mid d(x,z)<r\}$, we shall prove that 
$$
\{z\mid d(x,z)<r\}=\{z\mid d(y,z)<r\}.
$$
By symmetry, we only need to prove the above left is contained in the above right. Let $d(x,z)<r$. Then we have $d(y,z)\leq max(d(x,z), d(x,y))<r$. This completes the proof. 

(2). Let $\{z_j\}$ be a sequence in $B=B_x(r)$. Let $z_j\to z$. Then $d(x,z)\leq\max(d(x,z_j), d(z,z_j))$ for any $j$. We choose $j$ large enough so that $d(z_j,z)<r$. Then $d(x,z)<r$, and this proves the open ball is closed.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Compute
$$
\lim_{n\to\infty} \int_0^1 \sin(nx)e^{-x^2}\, dx
$$
Be sure to justify your answer. (You may assume elementary facts about calculus, but state them.)

#proof
Using integration by parts, 
we have 
$$
\int_0^1 \sin(nx)e^{-x^2}\, dx=-\frac 1n\int_0^1 e^{-x^2} d\cos (nx)=-\frac 1n e^{-1}\cos 1+\frac 1n
+\frac 1n\int_0^1\cos(nx) e^{-x^2}(-2x) dx.
$$
Thus we have 
$$
\left|\int_0^1 \sin(nx)e^{-x^2}\, dx\right|\leq\frac{C}{n}
$$
for a constant $C>0$. Thus 
$$
\lim_{n\to\infty} \int_0^1 \sin(nx)e^{-x^2}\, dx=0.
$$
::