# 2022 Fall Real Analysis

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Let $(X,\mathcal B,\mu)$ be a msasure space and $(f_n)_{n\in\mathbb N}$ a
            sequence in $L^1(\mu)$ that converges a.e. to $f\in L^1(\mu)$.
            Prove that $f_n\to f$ in $L^1(\mu)$ as $n\to\infty$ if and only
$$
            \int_X|f_n|d\mu\to\int_X|f| d\mu
$$
as $n\to\infty$.

#proof
The only if part follows from the triangle inequality
$$
        \left|\int_X|f_n|d\mu-\int_X|f|d\mu\right|\leq \int_X|f_n-f|d\mu.
$$

 To prove the if part, we first do some preparation. Let $E\subset X$. Then we have
$$
        \int_X|f_n-f|d\mu=\int_{E^c} |f_n-f|d\mu +\int_{E} |f_n-f|d\mu \leq
        \int_{E^c} |f_n-f|d\mu +\int_{E} (|f_n|+|f|)d\mu.
$$
We also have
$$
        \left|\int_E|f_n|d\mu-\int_E|f|d\mu\right|\leq \left|\int_X|f_n|d\mu-\int_X|f|d\mu\right|
        +\int_{E^c}|f_n-f| d\mu.
$$
Combining the above two inequalities, we have
$$
        \int_X|f_n-f|d\mu\leq 2 \int_{E^c} |f_n-f|d\mu+2\int_E|f|d\mu+
        \left|\int_X|f_n|d\mu-\int_X|f|d\mu\right|.\qquad\qquad \qquad\qquad (1)
$$
Now we prove the if part of this problem. For any $\eps>0$, we can find a subset $E_1\subset X$
            such that
$$
        \int_{E_1} |f| d\mu<\eps, 
$$
and $\mu(E_1^c) < \infty$. Now we use the 
                [Egorov's Theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Egorov's_theorem). There exists a set $E_2$ such that
$$
                \mu(E_2)<\eps,\quad \int_{E_2}|f|d\mu<\eps, 
$$
and on $E_1^c\backslash E_2$, $f_n\to f$ uniformly. Now let $E=E_1\cup E_2$, then using (1), we
                    have
$$
                    \int_X|f_n-f|d\mu\leq 2 \int_{E^c} |f_n-f|d\mu+4\eps +
                    \left|\int_X|f_n|d\mu-\int_X|f|d\mu\right|. 
$$
The theorem follows from the assumption and the uniform convergence of $f_n$ over $E^c$.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Suppose that $(X,\mathcal B,\mu)$ is a probability space and $\mathcal C$ is a
                $\sigma$-subalgebra of $\mathcal B$. Further suppose that $f\in L^1(X,\mathcal B,\mu)$.
            
(a). Prove that there is a unique $g\in L^1(X,\mathcal C,\mu)$ such that $\int_A fd\mu=\int_Ag d\mu$ for
                all
                $A\in\mathcal C$.
            

(b). Suppose that $f=\chi_B$ for some $B\in\mathcal B$ and that $\mathcal C=\{\emptyset, C, C^c,X\}$
for some $C\in\mathcal B$ with $\mu(C)\in(0,1)$.
Write an explicit formula for the function $g$ from part (a) in this case.
Make sure to justify your answer.

#proof

For part (a), we define
$$
\nu(A)=\int_A fd\mu
$$
for $A\in\mathcal C$. It is not hard to see that $\nu\ll\mu$, that is, $\nu$ is absolute continuous with respect to 
$\mu$. Then by [Radon–Nikodym Theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radon–Nikodym_theorem),
there is a $\mathcal C$ measureable function $g$ such that 
$$
\int_A gd\mu=\nu(A)=\int_A fd\mu.
$$

For part (b), we define 
$$
g(x)=\frac{\mu(B\cap C)}{\mu(C)}
$$
for $x\in C$ and 
$$
g(x)=\frac{\mu(B\cap C^c)}{\mu(C^c)}
$$
for $x\in C^c$. Then $g$ is the Radon-Nikodym derivative of $\nu$ to $\mu$.
::




::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
 Let $f\in L_{{\rm loc}}^1(\R^n)$, $p\in (0,1)$, and assume that
 $$
            \left| \int fg \,dx\right|\leq \left(\int |g|^p\,dx\right)^{1/p}
$$
for any $g\in \mathcal C_c(\R^n)$. Conclude that $f=0$ a.e..

[Hint: Show that the inequality extends to characteristic functions of balls.]{.text-green-700}

#proof

Let $B_p(a)$ be a ball of radius $a$ centered at $p$. Let $g$ be the 
characteristic function of $B_p(a)$.  Then for any $\eps>0$, there is a smooth function 
$g_\eps$ with compact support such that $0\leq g-g_\eps\leq 1$ on $B_p(a)\backslash B_p(a-\eps)$, and $g_\eps
=g$ otherwise. Thus we have 
$$
\left| \int fg dx\right|\leq \left| \int fg_\eps dx\right|+\int_{B_p(a)\backslash B_p(a-\eps)}|f|\, dx.
$$
We also have
$$
\left(\int |g_\eps|^p\,dx\right)^{1/p}\leq \left(\int |g|^p\,dx\right)^{1/p}=({\rm Vol}(B_p(a)))^{1/p}.
$$
Thus we have
$$
\left| \int fg dx\right|\leq ({\rm Vol}(B_p(a)))^{1/p}+ \int_{B_p(a)\backslash B_p(a-\eps)}|f|\, dx.
$$
Letting $\eps\to 0$, we obtain 
$$
\left| \int_{B_p(a)} f dx\right|\leq ({\rm Vol}(B_p(a)))^{1/p}.
$$
This means that the inequality extends to characteristic function of balls. Rewrite the above inequality 
as
$$
\frac{1}{{\rm Vol}(B_p(a))}\left| \int_{B_p(a)} f dx\right|\leq ({\rm Vol}(B_p(a)))^{1/p-1}.
$$
By the 
    [Lebesgue Differentiation Theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lebesgue_differentiation_theorem),
we conclude that $f=0$ a.e..
::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Let $\nu_1,\nu_2$ be finite signed measure on a measureable space
            $(X,\mathcal M)$. Show that
$$
            |\nu_1+\nu_2|(E)\leq |\nu_1|(E)+|\nu_2|(E)
$$
for $E\in\mathcal M$. Also prove the inequality can be strict.

#proof
The inequality is obvious. To prove that strict inequality can occur, take $\nu_2=-\nu_1$. 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Let $f\in L^4(\R)$ and show that
$$
            \lim_{c\to 1}\int |f(cx)-f(x)|^4 dx=0.
$$

#proof
This is very similar to
      [Problem 4 of 2023 Winter Real Analysis Exam](/posts/real-analysis/2023-spring/).
The proof essentially goes as follows: first prove the theorem for smooth functions with 
        compcat support. Then use smooth functions to approximate $L^4$ functions.
::

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Let $E_1,\cdots,E_{10}\subset [0, 1]$ be the Lebesgue measurable sets.
            Suppose that each $x\in [0, 1]$ belongs to at least 5 of these sets (which 5 can vary with $x$).
            Prove that $\lambda(E_m)\geq 1/2$ for some $m\in\{1,\cdots,10\}$, where $\lambda$ is the Lebesgue
            measure on the real line.

#proof
This is very similar to
       [Problem 1 of 2023 Winter Real Analysis](/posts/real-analysis/2023-spring/). Let
        $1_{E_i}$ be the characteristic function of $E_i$. By assumption, we have
$$
        5\leq\sum_{i=1}^{10} 1_{E_i}.
$$
Integrating on both sides, we obtain
$$
        5\leq\sum_{i=1}^{10} \lambda(E_i).
$$
Thus there is an $i$ such that $\lambda(E_i)\geq 1/2$.
::
